APW20001001.2021.0521 NEWS STORY 2000-10-01 20:56:35 Egypt-Assad Syrian President Travels To Egypt CAIRO , Egypt ( AP ) _ In his foreign policy debut as Syria 's president , Bashar Assad met Sunday with Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak in talks on Mideast peace and the escalating violence in the Palestinian territories . Assad , on his first trip abroad since becoming president in July , also dealt with the issue of Iraq in the talks with Mubarak , Egyptian Foreign Minister Amr Mussa said . The Syrian leader 's visit came on a fourth day of clashes that have raged in the West Bank , Gaza Strip and Jerusalem , leaving more than two dozen Palestinians dead . `` There is complete agreement ( between Mubarak and Assad ) as to the seriousness of the situation and that the negative repercussions would adversely effect the peace process , which is in itself in a very precarious state ,'' Moussa said . Assad , 35 , has focused on domestic issues since his father , Hafez Assad , died in June after 30 years in power . He has taken steps to modernize his nation 's bureaucracy and revive its stagnant economy . `` This was the first meeting of the first visit of President Bashar Assad after the funeral of his father , so it was only normal for the discussions to have a general tone ... in addition to certain specifics of special importance to both countries and the Arab world ,'' Moussa said . The late Syrian president rarely traveled abroad . In his last few years , however , he had sent Bashar , educated as an eye doctor , on foreign trips as part of his grooming to become president . Prospects appear dim for progress on either the Syrian or Palestinian peace track . The deadlock in Palestinian - Israeli talks is exacerbated by the worst violence in four years . Syria 's government -run media said last week that no progress could be expected now because of the U.S. elections and Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak 's precarious situation as leader of a minority government . Syrian - Israeli peace negotiations broke down in January , with Syria demanding a full withdrawal from the Golan Heights , a strategic plateau captured by Israel in 1967 . Israel insists on waiting to settle borders until it knows what it will gain by returning Golan land . Assad has made it clear he intends to follow his father 's course in any negotiations with Israel . Mubarak and Assad met after a week when Russia , France , Jordan and Yemen sent planes to Baghdad , challenging U.N. sanctions imposed on Iraq after its 1990 invasion of Kuwait . Iraq is hoping other Arab countries will follow , despite U.S. complaints , easing its isolation . Moussa said the presidents discussed the situation in Iraq and would return to it Monday . However , he would not comment on whether Syria and Egypt were planning to send planes to Baghdad . Egypt and Syria are on good terms , but they have had their differences . Hafez Assad 's attempts to rally Arab leaders to present a unified front against Israel gained little ground . He derided Egypt for signing a peace treaty with Israel in 1979 . APW20001002.0615.0146 NEWS STORY 2000-10-02 06:38:11 Indonesia-Suharto's-Son Suharto 's Son Fails To Obey Summons JAKARTA , Indonesia ( AP ) _ The youngest son of ex- dictator Suharto disobeyed a summons to surrender himself to prosecutors Monday and be imprisoned for corruption . Hutomo `` Tommy'' Mandala Putra , 37 , was sentenced to 18 months in prison on Sept . 22 by the Supreme Court , which overturned an earlier acquittal by a lower court . It found him guilty of enriching himself through a property deal with the state 's main food supply agency . Prosecutors said the 1997 deal , made when his father was still in power , had cost the Indonesian state $10.8 million . Tommy , a multimillionaire with a playboy image and love of fast cars , is the first member of Suharto 's family to be convicted of graft . Because the Supreme Court 's decision to imprison Tommy did not come into immediate effect , prosecutors served a summons on Tommy to be taken into custody Monday . He instead sent a legal team to discuss whether he would appeal the ruling or admit his guilt and seek a presidential pardon . The delay of Tommy 's arrest comes just days after another court dismissed other corruption charges against his 79-year-old father on grounds of ill health , enraging pro-democracy activists and triggering violent demonstrations . Critics of Indonesia 's legal system have accused it of going soft on the Suharto clan . A co-defendant in Tommy 's case , businessman Riccardo Gelael , separately admitted his guilt Monday to prosecutors and said he would appeal to President Abdurrahman Wahid for a pardon . Antasari Ashar , chief of South Jakarta Prosecution Office , said Tommy would again be summoned to meet prosecutors on Wednesday . If Tommy opts for a judicial review of the case , his fate will be decided by the same court that last week dismissed graft charges against his father . The decision to let Suharto off triggered fierce street demonstrations , in which one man died and dozens were injured . For weeks Suharto 's trial had been marred by a series of bombings in Jakarta , including a blast at the city 's stock exchange building in which 15 people were killed . Many suspect supporters of Suharto , who ruled for 32 years until his ouster in 1998 , were behind the attacks . APW20001002.1912.0524 NEWS STORY 2000-10-02 19:35:23 Georgia-School-Shooting Ga . Teen Pleads Guilty in Shooting CONYERS , Ga . ( AP ) _ A teen-ager entered dual pleas of guilty and guilty but mentally ill Monday in a 1999 school shooting that left six fellow students wounded . A judge will consider the results of mental evaluations on 17-year-old T.J. Solomon before deciding which of the two pleas to accept . If the judge accepts the guilty pleas to all 29 charges , including aggravated assault , cruelty to children and weapons violations , Solomon could be sentenced to up to 211 years in prison . If the judge accepts the guilty-but-mentally-ill plea , Solomon would still go to prison but would receive psychiatric treatment under the care of prison doctors . Solomon , then 15 , opened fire with a sawed-off rifle on hundreds of students in a common area at Heritage High School in Conyers , about 25 miles east of Atlanta , one month after the Columbine High massacre in Colorado . Witnesses said he appeared to be aiming below waist level . He then dropped to his knees and pointed a .357-caliber Magnum revolver , first at his mouth and then at an assistant principal , but then surrendered it to the man with a tearful : `` Oh , my God , I 'm so scared !'' Solomon 's lawyers had argued that the teen-ager should be hospitalized for mental illness , but a Georgia appeals court ruled that he was not out of touch with reality at the time of the shootings . Friends have said Solomon was upset over a failed romance , but he was vague about his motives in a letter of apology earlier this year . `` It is hard to describe how dark and isolated I felt leading up to the date of my mistake ,'' Solomon wrote . `` It almost made everything in my life not worth waiting for .'' Cecil Brinkley , the assistant principal , was honored last week by the Pittsburgh -based Carnegie Hero Fund Commission , established in 1904 by Andrew Carnegie to recognize acts of heroism . APW20001006.0338.0184 NEWS STORY 2000-10-06 04:05:46 Debate-Veeps-TV TV Pundits Give Debate High Marks LOS ANGELES ( AP ) _ The Dick Cheney - Joe Lieberman debate was praised by some TV commentators as an exercise in good manners and condemned by others as bad politics . `` Highly civilized , in many ways they articulated the positions of their campaigns more effectively than the top of their ticket when they met in Boston ,'' Tom Brokaw said . `` Give it a rave ,'' said CBS anchor Dan Rather . This will go down as the best vice presidential joint appearance on television since the television era in presidential and vice presidential campaigns began .'' His colleague , Bob Schieffer , wondered whether their `` bosses ,'' George W. Bush and Al Gore , were watching . Instant polls and in-studio audiences also gave the vice presidential candidates high marks . But some observers pronounced themselves frustrated by the debate . Fox News Channel 's Mort Kondracke called it `` an opportunity wasted by Cheney to go after Gore .'' `` Maybe somebody could have given the candidates a hot foot or put a joy buzzer on their seat ,'' said his colleague , Fred Barnes . Conservative commentator Bill Kristol , also on FNC , said `` the Bush campaign failed to do what it had to do ... which to assault al Gore 's policies and his credibility .'' ABC 's Sam Donaldson asked plaintively when it was decreed that campaigners had to act like `` gentlemen and ladies .'' `` I think that 's nonsense ,'' Donaldson said . The night was put in perspective . ABC anchorman Peter Jennings , who noted that `` bottom of the ticket '' doesn't necessarily have that much affect on voter decisions . NBC 's Tim Russert of predicted the veep debate 's `` effect on the election will practically be nonexistent .'' A group of undecided voters recruited by NBC in Tampa , Fla ., were impressed with both candidates _ and , with a non-show of hands , all indicated they remained on the fence . On Tuesday , an estimated 46.5 million people watched the first presidential debate between Gore and Bush , which some commentators deemed rancorous . Lieberman and Cheney were probably on their best behavior because focus groups told the campaigns that conflict doesn't pay , commentators mused . That Gore - Bush audience was comparable to the 46.1 million people who watched the first duel between President Clinton and Bob Dole four years ago , but fell short of the all-time record : 80 million people watched President Carter and Ronald Reagan square off in 1980 . Cheney and Lieberman , with moderator Bernie Shaw , met at Centre College in Danville , Ky ., for their only debate . Bush and Gore have two more debates scheduled , on Oct . 11 and 17 . APW20001007.0339.0149 NEWS STORY 2000-10-07 05:07:04 Foreign-Policy-Politics Foreign Policy Hits Bush , Gore Race WASHINGTON ( AP ) _ Republicans give George W. Bush credit for promoting a Russian role in smoothing the transition from despot to democrat in Yugoslavia _ an idea dismissed in debate as risky by Al Gore even as his boss was trying to get Moscow to step in . It 's the first foreign policy spat of an otherwise domestically focused presidential campaign between two candidates who have sharply different views of America 's role in the world and a wide gap in foreign policy experience . `` Russians must use their leverage on Mr. Milosevic to make sure he ... finally leaves ,'' Bush said Friday in Cedar Rapids , Iowa , repeating what he said in Tuesday 's first presidential debate . As he spoke , Russian Foreign Minister Ivanov was in Yugoslavia , meeting with ousted leader Slobodan Milosevic and recognizing opposition leader Vojislav Kostunica as winner of the Sept . 24 election . In the debate , Gore jumped on Bush , dismissing his idea of bringing in the Russians as unwise because they hadn't recognized Kostunica as victor . `` I 'm not sure that it 's right for us to invite the president of Russia to mediate this dispute there , because we might not like the result that comes out of that ,'' Gore said . On Friday , Bush criticized his opponent 's statement . `` Either he didn't know what the president was doing or he did know what the president was doing and wasn't willing to share that with the American people ,'' Bush said in Florida , where he was campaigning . Gore campaign aides insisted he was aware of administration efforts to persuade the Russians to convince Milosevic to go . In Thursday night 's vice presidential debate , as Kostunica supporters stormed Belgrade to drive out Milosevic , Republican Dick Cheney said Gore had been `` pooh-poohing '' the idea of Russian involvement while the administration was doing just about what Bush had proposed . Cheney said Bush deserved `` a lot of credit for that .'' Marc Thiessen , spokesman for the GOP -controlled Senate Foreign Relations Committee , said administration officials told members of Congress in a briefing Wednesday that Clinton sent a letter to Russian President Vladimir Putin three weeks ago `` asking him to step in and do exactly what Bush suggested '' and on Saturday personally urged Putin by phone to intervene . `` It was Bush who was completely informed , whose instincts were right , and it was Gore who was uninformed and didn't even know the administration policy ,'' Thiessen said . Gore on Friday welcomed Yugoslavia 's change , saying it brings the country `` back into the community of nations .'' He added , `` This is a day for celebration ,'' without commenting on the Russian issue . The White House , however , came to his defense . `` What the vice president said is something the president fully agrees with , which is that the United States did not support any role in which Russia would mediate between Milosevic and Kostunica ,'' said presidential spokesman Jake Siewert , who confirmed that Clinton spoke with Putin about Yugoslavia last weekend . The dispute over a foreign policy matter comes late in a campaign that has given little attention to most offshore issues . What discussion there has been has tended to involve a contrast in plans for the military . Bush decries the state of the military and calls for more-limited engagement abroad . Gore defends current military readiness and urges a definition of national security interests that would include environmental , health and other global issues . The candidates also have differences on missile defense , nuclear arms cuts , global warming , immigration and trade , but none of those issues has turned into a major debate . Gore has been active in foreign affairs as vice president , serving on commissions with key countries , including one with former Russian Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin . Bush 's supporters say that despite his lack of direct foreign policy experience , his record as Texas governor , including dealings with neighbor Mexico , show he 'll inspire the trust of allies and the respect of adversaries . Cheney , defense secretary for four years under President Bush , has lent a measure of experience to candidate Bush 's claims that the Clinton administration has shortchanged the military and GOP plans to limit foreign deployments . Democrat Joseph Lieberman matches some of Cheney 's foreign policy experience with his Senate Armed Services Committee membership and involvement on a range of international issues during his dozen years in the Senate . APW20001007.1745.0371 NEWS STORY 2000-10-07 18:21:36 Israel-Fallen-Fort W.Bank Holy Site Destroyed by War NABLUS , West Bank ( AP ) _ Joseph's Tomb , the flashpoint in a week of bitter West Bank clashes , is now a casualty of war . The steps leading down to the tomb are strewn with stones chipped off the walls . The top of the dome is smashed through in two places . Inside the tomb , soggy books , burned sleeping bags and scattered cans of food litter the muddy floor , and the walls are charred black from fire . But the stone sarcophagus is untouched , perhaps the one object still respected at this holy site , revered by some as the burial place of the biblical patriarch . The compound was home to a Jewish seminary , where about 30 students would study during the day . The Israeli army evacuated the outpost before dawn on Saturday , after clashes there last week killed six Palestinians and an Israeli border policeman . The seminary had been closed during the violence . Palestinian security officials were left standing guard as hundreds of Palestinians converged on the square in front of the site , cheering the withdrawal . With the arrival of dozens of Palestinian gunmen , the celebration degenerated into a trashing of the compound , with crowds vandalizing the tomb , setting fires and hammering away at the stone buildings . `` We did it so the Jews never come back ,'' said Haitham Najid Kabee , 14 , who vandalized the tomb with his friends . Nablus Gov . Mahmoud Aloul came to the square to plead with the vandals to stop . `` We should protect this building and make it a symbol for our martyrs who were killed defending it ,'' said Aloul , whose son was killed in clashes last week . `` We will stop here together and prevent any Jews from coming back to this place .'' But the governor 's call went unheeded . Demonstrators threw Jewish prayer books from the tomb , burning and tearing them . Some laughing teens walked out of the compound wearing Israeli helmets and vests found inside . Dozens climbed on the roof of the tomb and began hammering , breaking off chunks of rock . By late afternoon , firefighters had put out three fires in the compound . People still wandered curiously around the small enclave , now topped by a large flag of the radical Islamic group Hamas , and a smaller Palestinian flag . `` I am very happy ,'' said Nidal Abdel Jawad , 40 . `` It was still occupation as long as they were here .'' The withdrawal of troops from the tomb marked the first time Israel has relinquished territory as a direct result of Palestinian violence . Deputy Defense Minister Ephraim Sneh said the enclave had become a liability . But after the destruction that followed the withdrawal , Israeli officials were furious . `` The Palestinians betrayed their commitment and have let this shrine fall into the hands of the mob waiting outside ,'' said Israeli government spokesman Nahman Shai . He said the government `` deeply deplores '' the trashing of the tomb . A statement by the 15- member European Union also condemned the destruction . The tomb 's holiness is disputed , as tradition holds that Joseph was actually buried in Egypt ; the connection of the site to Joseph is a relatively recent local Arab tradition also observed by some Jews . `` What I want to understand is if Joseph is not buried there , why this place was so important ,'' said Abdul Fateh Sayed , 62 , whose bookstore across the street was hit by stray bullets in the fighting . `` Now it 's over . We are very happy ,'' he said , leafing through a thick law book , its pages shot through by bullets . `` There should never have been a military base in a civilian area .'' APW20001007.1745.0378 NEWS STORY 2000-10-07 18:33:34 Yugoslavia-Milosevic's-Plans Milosesvic May Undermine Reforms BELGRADE , Yugoslavia ( AP ) _ Slobodan Milosevic 's plans to remain active in politics could spell trouble for Yugoslavia 's newly elected president and the victorious pro-democracy coalition . The disgraced autocrat 's Socialist Party and its neo-communist allies appeared to be on the verge of collapse after massive and violent protests led them to acknowledge victory by opposition challenger Vojislav Kostunica in last month 's presidential vote . Party activities have been suspended since Thursday , when pro-democracy demonstrators stormed federal parliament , the state television building and other centers of Milosevic 's power . Milosevic , who has been indicted by the international war crimes tribunal in The Hague , Netherlands , cannot leave Yugoslavia without risking arrest and extradition . Kostunica has pledged not to extradite him . But Milosevic appears to retain enough residual power to block Kostunica 's reforms and _ through proxies who still control Serbia 's police _ Yugoslavia 's reintegration into the world . `` I think he is preparing positions for a stab in the back by consolidating the police ( and ) creating chaos ,'' Zoran Djindjic , head of the Democratic Party , told The Associated Press . After initial speculation that he was hiding out , a visibly shaken Milosevic appeared on TV late Friday to concede defeat and congratulate Kostunica on his victory . `` I intend to rest a little and spend some more time with my family and especially with my grandson , Marko , and after that to help my party gain force and contribute to future prosperity ,'' he said . Other deposed leaders have managed to stay home and stay alive . But in countries like Chile and Indonesia , the old autocrats have been troublesome to new democratic regimes , sabotaging their efforts to overcome the legacy of authoritarian rule . Despite massive defeats in the presidential ballot and local council elections , the Socialists still have a majority in the state legislature of Serbia , Yugoslavia 's dominant republic , where they are allied with the ultranationalist Radical Party . The president of Serbia , Milan Milutinovic , is one of Milosevic 's closest cronies . He is also an indicted war criminal , and his fate depends on Milosevic 's own political survival . The Serbian presidency has sweeping powers , including direct control over the state 's 100,000-strong police force . Its powers are much more substantial than those of the federal president , even though Milosevic beefed up the post 's stature under his tenure . `` Milutinovic occupies a very strong post and he will remain unswervingly loyal to Milosevic ,'' said Braca Grubacic , a Belgrade political analyst . `` This presents Milosevic with unlimited possibilities to block any reforms initiated by Kostunica .'' Even on the federal level , Milosevic retains significant clout . His leftist coalition controls 46 of 178 seats in the federal parliament . Together with an allied party from Montenegro , Yugoslavia 's smaller republic , his allies could conceivably form the new federal government , sidelining Kostunica . Ultimately , however , Milosevic 's ability to play any political role will depend on his ability to rally his badly shaken party . Stunned by the extent of their electoral defeat , members were reported to be deserting in droves . Some opposition leaders are convinced Milosevic 's power will ebb quickly , now that he has lost control of the government media he used as his propaganda mouthpiece during 13 years of iron-fisted rule . Milosevic also remains vulnerable to criminal prosecution for running one of Europe 's most corrupt regimes . Some have accused him of orchestrating a spate of assassinations in which some of the country 's most senior politicians and underworld figures have died . `` In the end , Milosevic may even prefer extradition to The Hague rather than stay here and face our justice ,'' said opposition leader Zarko Korac . APW20001008.1511.0218 NEWS STORY 2000-10-08 15:34:30 Yugoslavia Kostunica Forming New Government BELGRADE , Yugoslavia ( AP ) _ With Vojislav Kostunica in office as president , backers of the pro-democracy leader embarked Sunday on the potentially volatile task of forming a government that tries to exclude backers of former leader Slobodan Milosevic . Kostunica 's team was faced with a difficult task : Putting together a government with as few old faces as possible , while placating a Milosevic wing that still wields considerable power . `` We need a government of discontinuity ,'' said opposition leader Zoran Djindjic , who helped manage Kostunica 's rise to power _ from his election campaign through the brief revolt that forced Milosevic to concede defeat and Kostunica 's swearing-in Saturday . Milosevic himself has said he will remain in Yugoslavia as a political force . Kostunica has said he will defy Western demands to surrender the outgoing president and others indicted by the U.N . war crimes tribunal in The Hague . And Serbia , the main Yugoslav republic , still is run by a government of Milosevic cronies including Serbian President Milan Milutinovic _ like Milosevic , indicted by the tribunal . Milutinovic controls approximately 100,000 policemen in his republic and , indirectly , much of the republic 's economy . Kostunica 's pro-democracy forces have said they would demand early elections for new Serbian parliament and president . Kostunica scored a stunning upset over Milosevic in the Sept . 24 presidential election . Milosevic 's attempt to deny Kostunica 's victory sparked a national uprising , and he conceded defeat Friday . Norway 's Foreign Minister Thorbjoern Jagland and Mladjan Dinkic , the head of an influential group of economists , demanded Sunday that Milosevic be punished for vote-rigging . `` We now expect state prosecutors to bring charges against Slobodan Milosevic ,'' Dinkic said . A human rights group in Yugoslavia , the Humanitarian Law Fund , also demanded punishment for the ousted autocrat , issuing long lists of his alleged misdeeds . Dinkic also called for a donor 's conference on Yugoslavia with the aim of injecting at least $500 million into the cash-strapped country over the next year . Cleaning house at top levels is also seen as important for Yugoslavia in its efforts to break out of a decade of sanctions and international isolation meant to bring Milosevic to heel . Milosevic is blamed by the West for starting _ and then losing _ four Balkan wars that broke out in the last decade when parts of Yugoslavia began to seek independence . Those conflicts were marked by horrific acts of violence against civilians , which prompted Western governments to impose sanctions and isolate the government in Belgrade . A new government should `` be able to show up in Brussels and Washington and say : ` the country has democratized ... we ask from you to lift the sanctions ,''' Djindjic said . Both the United States and the European Union have said they will begin to lift sanctions once the new government is in place . French Foreign Minister Hubert Vedrine confirmed Sunday that the EU would partially lift sanctions on Monday . Djindjic spoke after the inaugural session of the Yugoslav Parliament , where Kostunica took office . Kostunica pledged to follow his conscience in leading Yugoslavia and urged lawmakers to bury past enmities that led to bloodshed and chaos . The 56-year-old legal scholar promised to return Yugoslavia to democracy and end the ethnic conflict and economic devastation that marked the 13 years of Milosevic 's rule . `` Everything is peaceful ,'' he said . `` Yugoslavia and Serbia have joined the family of democratic nations .'' Still , discord could resurface , at least in parliament . The swearing-in itself was repeatedly delayed by Milosevic allies who contested parts of the Sept . 24 vote . And with Kostunica 's 18-party opposition block short of an absolute majority , it appears compelled to deal with the Socialist People's Party of Montenegro , the smaller Yugoslav republic . That party backed Milosevic until his downfall and now seeks to have one of its own appointed as Yugoslavia 's prime minister _ the constitution says that if the president is from Serbia , the prime minister must be Montenegrin . With the opposition outnumbered in parliament , a nonpartisan government of experts , as favored by many in the Kostunica camp , has little chance of being formed . APW20001009.1751.0391 NEWS STORY 2000-10-09 17:51:42 France-Fashion Rabanne Fashion Has Silver Lining PARIS ( AP ) _ Paco Rabanne 's Monday show of ready-to-wear for summer 2001 was shiny , young and happy . He decided that fashion has a silver lining _ and exterior , as well . The designer was expected to retire a couple of seasons ago , but he only gave up haute couture , and threw his well-known talents for chain-mail and sequins into boutique clothes . With a waterfall background , the models paraded by in gold or silver disc dresses , super slithery silver metallic bikinis , wraps and micro-mini dresses or hot pants . Well over sixty , Rabanne still has an eye for the younger circuit . The smooth caramel imitation leather outfits with nailheads _ jackets , flared pants and more _ were remarkable . Also entertaining was the bikini in tortoise-shell-patterned plastic discs . Bare midriffs and trousers flared and split halfway up the leg looked zingy . Of course , there were hot pants , in glitzy metallics and soft leather , and there were metal hip belts or breastplate neckwear galore . Softwear here included geometrics on striped minis in little crepe or organza dresses , some good trouser outfits with plastic or metal adorning halter-neck toppers . For eye-popping specials , Rabanne came out with plenty of fluorescent green and orange , quite fun for the disco in a rhodoid disc-decorated minidress with matching bag . The long silky and tulle black ballerina outfits were a sober note , though the sandals were interesting _ heels only , clinging to the foot , with a ring on a toe . Dries van Noten also produced an amusing , appealing collection that stood as a feminine moment . The flowered skirts in sun pleats , the interesting striped jackets in Indian silk , teamed with shiny black and white patent high-heeled pumps , looked partly retro , but eminently wearable . Low-keyed glamour here included flapper looks in low-belted outfits with short pleated skirts , some super sailor -style trouser outfits with fluid ivory or white pants and little jackets and striped shirts . Prints for the georgette crepes and chiffons were often wonderful . They looked like watercolors of arbors or fantasy flowers . Ruffles peeping out here and there from skirts or on tops added more feminine touches . Dresses in hibiscus-embroidered fabrics , large chiffon shawls with floral embroideries , boxy silk jackets and the hipster pants all made for a fine offering . Gaspard Yurkievitch , a young French designer , showing in the Petit Palais , could make the grade in some stores with his offhand styles that some find cool but that lacked sex appeal . A black bathing suit with a fawn suede jacket with nailhead snaps was followed by skinny fawn trousers with plenty of bare midriff showing under the black bra . Then things went into the puffy , baggy lines , the latest look-back-to-Eighties styles seen on some runways . In cotton satins and other fabrics , Yurkievitch showed pants with baggy bottoms , skirts with bubbly effects and some odd ruffles around armholes . These often came in colors like magenta or brown . Even harem pants or a totally topless number with lacy black pants and bikini bottoms failed to lure . APW20001012.1321.0434 NEWS STORY 2000-10-12 13:36:03 Detective-Slain Cop , Suspect Fatally Shot at Station WARREN , Mich. ( AP ) _ A detective and a drug suspect were fatally wounded during a struggle while the officer was booking him at police headquarters . Officers said investigators were reviewing a videotape of the lockup area in an effort to figure out the sequence of events that led to the shooting Wednesday evening . Detective Christopher Wouters had arrested a suspect on drug charges , Warren police Chief James Vohs said . Both were wounded around 6:30 p.m . after the man `` produced a gun and there was a struggle ,'' he said . Authorities did not immediately say whether the gun belonged to the detective or the suspect . Wouters , 42 , died an hour later at St. John Macomb Hospital . The suspect died later the same night , hospital spokeswoman Rebecca O'Grady said Thursday . His name wasn't released . Vohs described Wouters , a 19-year veteran , as a good officer who was married and had two young daughters . It was the first time since 1969 that an officer has been killed in the line of duty in Warren , a large blue-collar Detroit suburb . APW20001012.1742.0669 NEWS STORY 2000-10-12 17:42:16 Clinton-Yugoslavia-Sanctions Clinton Lifts Yugoslavia Sanctions WASHINGTON ( AP ) _ Celebrating the political rebirth of the people of Serbia , President Clinton lifted key trade and economic sanctions to demonstrate support for Belgrade 's newly installed government . `` The victory of freedom in Serbia is one of the most hopeful developments in Europe since the fall of the Berlin Wall ,'' the president said on Friday . `` It ended a dictatorship and it can liberate an entire region from the nagging fear that ethnic differences can again be exploited to start wars and shift borders .'' Clinton announced the immediate ending of the oil embargo and flight ban that were imposed in 1998 to punish and isolate the regime of Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic . `` The removal of these sanctions is a first step to ending Serbia 's isolation ,'' Clinton said in a written statement . James C. O'Brien , the senior U.S. official overseeing developments in the Balkans , met with new Yugoslav President Vojislav Kostunica in Belgrade on Thursday to offer congratulations on Kostunica 's election victory and to highlight the message that further progress is expected . Clinton acted just days after the European Union lifted it s own oil embargo and ban on commercial flights to and from Serbia , the principal Yugoslav republic . `` We have a strong interest in supporting Yugoslavia 's newly elected leaders as they work to build a truly democratic society ,'' Clinton said . The EU did not remove sanctions that froze overseas assets of Milosevic and his allies and prohibited them from traveling to 15 EU nations . Clinton said the United States would also ensure that the lifting of sanctions does not allow Milosevic 's supporters `` to continue the systematic theft of resources that have marked the last 13 years .'' `` Our disagreement was with the Milosevic regime , not the people of Serbia who have suffered under the regime 's brutal policies ,'' the president said . `` In that vein we will continue to enforce a ban on travel to the United States by top members of the Milosevic regime and keep in place measures that help the new government deter a looting of the national patrimony during the current period of transition in Yugoslavia ,'' the president said . He said the administration also would review restrictions on Serbia 's participation in international financial institutions `` as Serbia makes it s democratic transition and meets it s international obligations .'' `` There is still much work ahead for the Yugoslav people and their new government : restoring confidence in the rule of law , rebuilding an honest economy , accounting for the past while building for a better future ,'' Clinton said . `` Thankfully , that work can now begin _ without the burden of isolation and with the friendship of the American people .'' APW20001012.1742.0683 NEWS STORY 2000-10-12 17:59:47 US-Mideast Clinton Urges Mideast Cease-Fire WASHINGTON ( AP ) _ President Clinton urged Israelis and Palestinians to undertake an immediate cease-fire after a new outbreak of bloodshed and called on both sides to condemn all acts of violence . `` Now is the time to stop the bloodshed , to restore calm , to return to dialogue and ultimately to the peace process ,'' the president said Thursday afternoon in the White House Rose Garden . APW20001012.1742.0694 NEWS STORY 2000-10-12 18:08:09 Detective-Slain Cop Killed While Booking Suspect WARREN , Mich. ( AP ) _ A drug suspect being booked at police headquarters shot a veteran detective to death and then turned the gun on himself . Ljeka Juncaj , 29 , pulled a gun out of his pants Wednesday night and shot Detective Christopher Wouters during a struggle , Police Chief James Vohs said Thursday . Juncaj , arrested as part of an undercover bust , then shot himself in the head . Both men died later at a hospital . Juncaj was accused of possession with intent to deliver 400 pills of the drug ecstasy . Vohs said other officers took part in the arrest but he didn't know what steps had been taken to search Juncaj for a weapon . Ordinarily , officers said , a suspect would have been frisked at least once before arriving at booking . Wouters , 42 , was a 19-year veteran , and he and his wife had three young children . `` A part of us died last night ,'' said Sgt. Kevin Sommers , who had known Wouters since they were children . `` You couldn't ask for a better guy , a better friend , a better officer .'' It was the first time since 1969 that an officer has been killed in the line of duty in Warren , a large blue-collar Detroit suburb . APW20001014.1040.0236 NEWS STORY 2000-10-14 10:41:12 UN-Israel-Palestinians General Assembly To Hold Meeting UNITED NATIONS ( AP ) _ The General Assembly is expected to hold an emergency meeting next week on the Middle East to consider a resolution that would condemn `` excessive use of force '' by Israeli soldiers , according to a draft obtained by The Associated Press . The draft is stronger than the resolution adopted by the Security Council last Saturday , but the wording was softer on Israel compared to past resolutions on the Israel - Palestinian conflict . The draft supports continued negotiations in search of peace and takes no side on divisive issues such as Jerusalem , saying only that the holy places there must be respected . It also takes into account the security needs of both Israelis and Palestinians and expresses deep concern about casualties on both sides . Arab states and developing nations asked for the emergency meeting Friday after the Security Council indicated it did not want another contentious session while diplomatic efforts were under way to end the violence that cost the lives of 96 people , most Palestinians . With a majority of the 189 U.N. member states now supporting a special session on the current unrest , an emergency meeting is virtually certain . Spokeswoman Sue Markham said General Assembly President Harri Holkeri will consult with other member states on the request and Arab diplomats said a meeting is likely to be held early next week . The Palestinian representative , Nasser Al-Kidwa , had originally requested an emergency meeting of the Security Council to adopt a new resolution , saying Israeli rocket attacks on Palestinian command centers Thursday _ retaliation for the brutal lynching of two Israeli soldiers _ were `` tantamount to the declaration of an overall war against the entire Palestinian people .'' But U.S. Ambassador Richard Holbrooke said the United States would veto any new resolution and other council members said they wanted to give Secretary-General Kofi Annan time to negotiate a truce before taking any new action . The two sides announced Saturday they would hold a summit in Egypt . Security Council resolutions have more clout because they are legally binding . General Assembly resolutions are adopted by majority vote and cannot be vetoed , but are not legally binding . The Security Council resolution last week condemned the `` excessive use of force '' against the Palestinians _ without naming Israel . The General Assembly draft resolution would condemn `` the excessive use of force by the Israeli occupying forces against Palestinian civilians .'' Israel says its soldiers use live ammunition only when their lives are in danger . The proposed draft reiterates that Jewish settlements in territory captured in the 1967 Mideast war `` are illegal ,'' and an obstacle to peace . The Security Council resolution backed `` a speedy and objective inquiry '' into the fighting . The proposed General Assembly resolution strongly supports `` a mechanism of inquiry '' into the events and asks Annan to report to the assembly in 10 days on his efforts to establish such a mechanism . APW20001016.1325.0321 NEWS STORY 2000-10-16 13:30:59 College-Costs Survey Finds College Costs Rising NEW YORK ( AP ) _ The price of a college degree continues to rise faster than inflation , with tuition and fees at public four-year colleges up an average 4.4 percent this fall , even more at private schools , a new survey has found . And loans provide a growing chunk of the extra money students need to pay for those degrees . Average in-state tuition and fees at public , four-year schools is $3,510 per semester _ $148 more than last year , according to figures released Monday by the College Board . On-campus room and board now averages $4,960 , up 5.1 percent . At private four-year colleges , tuition and fees average $16,332 , up 5.2 percent from last year . Room and board on campus is now $6,209 , a 4.2 percent increase . Only public two-year schools , chiefly community colleges , stayed below the current inflation rate _ but barely . Tuition rose this year to $1,705 , up 3.4 percent , the survey found . Private two-year schools boosted tuition and fees to $7,458 , a 7 percent rise . This pattern follows an old , familiar trend , said Joni Finney , a policy analyst at the National Center for Public Policy and Higher Education in San Jose , Calif. `` Colleges and universities have a very difficult time controlling their costs ,'' she said . `` These institutions were underfunded in the early part of the '90s ,'' Finney said . ''... But they 've more than made up for lost ground .'' But Stanley Eikenberry , president of the American Council on Education , an umbrella group for higher education , said in a statement , `` Given the large , fixed costs of most campuses , in personnel and facilities especially , these numbers show institutions are working hard to hold the line on increases .'' The recent increases push past inflation . The Consumer Price Index rose 2.7 percent in 1999 ; the first eight months of this year , consumer prices rose at an annual rate of 3.5 percent . Last year , college tuition and fees rose less than 5 percent . Despite the increases , college remains affordable and a good investment , said College Board President Gaston Caperton in a statement with the surveys . `` In both earning potential and learning potential , you cannot beat the value of a college education ,'' the former West Virginia governor said . The College Board 's figures concern the costs for 6.4 million full-time undergraduates _ 54 percent attending four-year public institutions , 27 percent at four-year private schools , 17 percent at two-year community colleges and 1 percent at private two-year schools . A majority of students need grants or loans _ or both _ but their exact numbers are unknown , a College Board spokesman said . Last school year , loans made up 59 percent of a record $68 billion in financial aid . A decade ago , loans made up just over 41 percent of student financial help . The pool of money from federal , state and school sources last year was 4 percent greater than a year earlier , but 88 percent more than a decade before , taking inflation into account . The New York -based College Board is a nonprofit organization that administers the SATs and promotes higher education . It surveyed more than 3,000 schools to find out undergraduate charges for 2000-2001 . The companion survey on financial aid , was based on federal , state and school statistics from 1999-2000 . Current grant and loan figures are not available until the school year ends . ____ On the Net : http://www.collegeboard.org American Council on Education : http://www.acenet.edu APW20001017.1313.0395 NEWS STORY 2000-10-17 13:42:09 Herblock's-Acid-Pen Congress Library Honors Cartoonist WASHINGTON ( AP ) _ Herbert Lawrence Block is not subtle . But then subtlety is not a trait of political cartoonists , a trade that Block _ better known as Herblock _ has plied for the past 71 years . From his base on The Washington Post 's editorial page , Herblock has sprayed ink on big issues and big shots , from Vietnam to Watergate and the Soviet bear , from presidents Truman to Nixon and Clinton . `` You see a cartoon in the newspapers and it goes ` Boom ! Bang !''' Herblock , who turned 91 on Friday , once told a reporter . Tuesday , a retrospective of his work goes on display at the Library of Congress . Lately , his shrapnel has stung Slobodan Milosevic , Yasser Arafat , the National Rifle Association and others . Al Gore and George W. Bush have taken fire , and whoever wins in November will take more . They can ask Clinton . Few Herblock targets , however , were as favored as Nixon , drawn with deep-set , malevolent eyes , five o'clock shadow and , when he was vice president in Eisenhower 's administration , with a bloodstained hatchet in hand . But Herblock offered a truce when Nixon was elected president in 1968 . He gave Nixon a shave . `` I gave him a chance , but after a while people saw he was the same old Nixon ,'' Herblock said in an interview Monday . Herblock also was an unrelenting opponent of Sen . Joe McCarthy , and the artist coined the term McCarthyism . For a March 29 , 1950 , cartoon he drew four Republican stalwarts hauling a reluctant GOP elephant toward a teetering stack of tar buckets , topped by a dripping barrel labeled `` McCarthyism '' and a little platform above that . He and the library agree that was the origin of the word _ `` with no thought of creating a new term ,'' Herblock wrote later . In the caption , the elephant says : `` You mean I'm supposed to stand on that ?'' Still , McCarthy , Herblock noted , even adopted the term as a title for a book `` McCarthyism : The Fight for America .'' Every president has had his turn under Herblock 's pen . Other subjects include U.S . intervention in Vietnam , Soviet and Chinese oppression , nuclear weapons , curtailed voting rights for the District of Columbia , slum housing , campaign fund raising , drunk drivers and racism . He apparently has no intention of retiring any time soon from the Post , where he has toiled for 54 years . At a reception Monday , James H. Billington , the librarian of Congress , said Herblock 's cartoons will be seen 100 years from now . To that , the artist said : `` Yes , and I hope they will be saying 'That was a good one this morning .''' Jean Rickard , Herblock 's assistant for 43 years , said the cartoonist goes to the office daily to keep close to the news and check his facts . `` I was just about to turn in a finished cartoon one day ,'' Herblock writes in the catalog to the show , `` only to learn that a major story had broken and kept the newsroom people too busy to tell me about it . The quick return to the drawing board to produce a new cartoon in minutes was an experience I wouldn't want to repeat .'' Born and raised in Chicago , Herblock 's first full-time cartoonist 's job was on the Chicago Daily News . His father , a chemist and contributor to humor magazines , suggested joining the first and last syllables of his name . His first cartoon for the News _ April 24 , 1929 _ blasted the timber industry . It was a bleak view of rough-cut tree stumps stretching to the horizon , with an ironic quote from the poet Henry Wadsworth Longfellow : `` This is the forest primeval .'' Since then Herblock has published a dozen books , won three Pulitzer Prizes and shared in a fourth . APW20001017.1313.0396 NEWS STORY 2000-10-17 13:45:21 Candidates-Debate Gore , Bush Prepare for Final Debate ST. LOUIS ( AP ) _ As Republican George W. Bush and Democrat Al Gore prepared to perch on stools and take voters ' questions in a crucial third debate , the sudden death of Missouri Gov . Mel Carnahan cast a pall over their final meeting . After talk of cancellation or a postponement for mourning , plans were made early Tuesday to continue the 9 p.m . EDT event on schedule , officials of both campaigns said . `` In the end , there was general agreement that Mel Carnahan would have wanted us to go forward ,'' a senior Bush campaign official said , speaking on condition of anonymity . Bush 's wife , Laura , canceled plans for a morning rally . Bush campaign officials also decided to tone down a post-debate rally , and were even considering canceling it . Gore hadn't planned any events before the debate . Carnahan , a Democrat who was running for the Senate , campaigned with Gore whenever the vice president was in Missouri and would have accompanied Gore aboard Air Force II to a Kansas City rally on Wednesday . Gore called Mrs . Carnahan with his condolences after the news broke Monday night , aides said . `` We 're all waking up , honestly , to the tragedy and the pain of it and the shock of it ,'' Democratic vice presidential candidate Joseph Lieberman said Tuesday morning on CNN . The Bush and Gore campaigns did not talk to each other directly about the possibility of postponement , but went through the debate commission 's director , Janet Brown , in a series of pre-dawn phone calls . Eventually , Brown recommended that the debate should go on , and neither side objected , according to campaign officials . The commission was to announce the plans later Tuesday , with each candidate given time at the debate 's start to say a few words about Carnahan , who died Monday night in the crash of a small plane . With the larger bloc of uncommitted voters across the nation apparently holding the key to the election , both candidates were clearly mindful of the high stakes if the encounter goes forward as planned . The informal question-and-answer format is one Gore is comfortable with , and he promised on Monday to `` just have an open meeting ,'' as he had done many times before . Bush , who has less formal debate experience than the vice president but whose standing in public opinion polls rose after the first two face-offs , vowed to `` just tell it like it is .'' The debate , just three weeks before the Nov . 7 election , will be held on the campus of Washington University . While the moderator will be the same as in the Boston and Winston-Salem , N.C ., debates _ Jim Lehrer of PBS _ questions this time will come from the audience . The Gallup polling organization , assigned by the Commission on Presidential Debates to recruit questioners , started with a random sample of all registered voters in St. Louis and its suburbs , and then screened out all but `` uncommitted voters ,'' said Frank Newport , Gallup 's executive editor . The result was a group of area voters who say they could support either Gore or Bush _ though they might be leaning one way or the other . The theater-in-the-round stage will be informally set with two stools and surrounded by 100 questioners and an additional 500 onlookers . Tuesday night 's debate marks the beginning of the final stretch . And , with polls continuing to show the race to be neck-and-neck , any stumble could have major impact on a contest in which both candidates are fiercely wooing a dwindling band of undecided voters . Gore held a mock debate on Monday , inviting 23 voters to the Innsbrook resort outside St. Louis to help him practice . `` I 'm going to do what I 've done a lot of times in Tennessee , and that is , just have an open meeting ,'' Gore said . In 16 years in Congress , Gore held some 1,000 town meetings with Tennessee constituents , and they've become a regular feature of his presidential campaign . After an uncharacteristically muted demeanor in last week 's debate , Gore , was looking to do better this time . `` I don't think you play it safe ,'' said Gore 's campaign chairman , William Daley , previewing the Tuesday night encounter . `` I think you try to be very natural and lay out in a forward way the compelling reasons for the election to go your way .'' Bush had long resisted the town-hall-style session , but in recent weeks on the campaign trail has been doing them almost daily . `` I 've felt comfortable about it ,'' the Republican said Monday . APW20001017.2123.0809 NEWS STORY 2000-10-17 21:40:51 Space-Shuttle Astronauts Install Power Equipment CAPE CANAVERAL , Fla . ( AP ) _ Two spacewalking astronauts clamped power equipment onto the international space station on Tuesday and inadvertently added to the collection of junk whizzing around Earth . A cap for a depressurization valve floated away moments after Bill McArthur emerged from space shuttle Discovery . The aluminum cover , about the size of a gas cap on a car , bounced against the space station , then against the shuttle robot arm . Then it was gone . `` It was a nice billiard shot ,'' McArthur radioed . `` It 's become the latest addition to tiny bodies orbiting the Earth .'' Mission Control said the lost cap was no reason for concern . Its tether either came loose or broke . The main purpose of Tuesday 's spacewalk _ the third in as many days _ was to mount two power converters on the space station 's new aluminum framework , or truss . Astronaut Leroy Chiao performed the job from the end of Discovery 's robot arm . He removed the 175-pound converters one by one from the shuttle cargo bay . From inside the shuttle , Michael Lopez-Alegria used the robot arm to give Chiao a lift . The converters will be used to regulate power once a pair of solar wings _ stretching 240 feet from tip to tip _ are installed during the next construction mission , in December . Chiao and McArthur clearly enjoyed their 240-mile-high construction work . `` How would you like to live on this thing for a few months ?'' McArthur asked . `` I think that would be pretty cool ,'' Chiao replied . By the time the seven-hour spacewalk ended , the two had completed all their cable connections , toolbox work and other chores . One spacewalk remains . On Wednesday , Lopez-Alegria and Jeff Wisoff will go back out to clean the top of the truss for the arrival of the solar wings , test their mini jetpacks and practice carrying each other . NASA wants to see how hard it would be for a spacewalker to rescue an incapacitated colleague . When Discovery pulls away Friday , it will leave behind 10 tons of new space station pieces . The station 's first permanent crew is supposed to arrive in early November . ___ On the Net : NASA : http://spaceflight.nasa.gov/index-m.html APW20001018.1350.0453 NEWS STORY 2000-10-18 14:20:24 Social-Security Social Security Checks To Jump WASHINGTON ( AP ) _ The 45.2 million Americans getting Social Security checks will see them grow by 3.5 percent next year , the biggest cost-of-living increase in almost a decade . That 's because inflation has picked up speed , almost entirely a reflection of surging energy prices . The increases , which will begin showing up in benefit payments for January , were announced by Social Security based on inflation figures released Wednesday by the Labor Department . The cost-of-living announcement comes just weeks before Americans elect a new president Nov . 7 . Florida and Pennsylvania _ among the tossup states in the presidential race _ have a large number of older people , who tend to be the most likely to vote . Texas Gov . George W. Bush , the Republican presidential nominee , and Vice President Al Gore , the Democrat , have repeatedly clashed over Social Security . Bush proposes allowing individuals some control over how to invest their retirement funds , while Gore says that would threaten the long-term solvency of the nation 's huge retirement system . The 3.5 percent increase was the largest since a 3.7 percent rise in 1992 . It means the average monthly check for retirees will rise by $29 to $845 next year , up from $816 this year . That compares with an increase of 2.4 percent for 2000 , which translated into an average of $19 a month more for retirees . In addition to retirement checks , the increases affect Social Security benefits paid to disabled workers and families whose breadwinners have died . The maximum monthly payment for low-income individuals receiving Supplemental Security Income , known as SSI , also will rise by 3.5 percent . That will boost the maximum monthly SSI check by $18 to $530 . For a couple , the SSI maximum goes up $27 to $796 . Increased payments to SSI recipients will begin on Dec . 29 . `` The annual cost-of-living adjustment is one of the most critically important features of the Social Security program ,'' said Social Security Commissioner Kenneth Apfel . `` For the elderly , it guarantees that their foundation of retirement income will remain strong for as long as they live .'' Separately , the Department of Health and Human Services announced that the monthly Medicare premium deducted from most elderly and disabled Americans ' Social Security checks for insurance coverage of doctors ' office visits will increase by $4.50 to $50 in 2001 . The increase , which takes effect Jan . 1 , reflects higher health-care costs and changes in Medicare law . It is not based on the cost-of-living adjustment tied to the CPI . Since 1975 , the benefit cost-of-living adjustment has been automatic , requiring no vote by Congress . It is calculated based on changes in the Consumer Price Index _ the government 's inflation yardstick _ from the third quarter of one year to the corresponding quarter of the next . Because of tame inflation , the yearly benefit boosts have been below 3.0 percent since 1994 . The 1999 increase of 1.3 percent , matched a record low set in 1987 . More recently , consumer prices have been edging up , largely because of higher energy costs . Crude-oil prices hit a 10-year high in September , contributing to costlier gasoline and heating oil . While overall inflation is rising , it is still moderate compared with other periods . Double-digit inflation in the late 1970s , for example , drove the cost-of-living increase up to 14.3 percent in 1980 . Social Security also announced Wednesday that for working Americans , the maximum annual earnings subject to Social Security taxes next year will rise to $80,400 from $76,200 . That limit along with the Social Security tax rate of 6.2 percent is set by law . ___ On the Web : Social Security Administration : http://www.ssa.gov APW20001018.1734.0654 NEWS STORY 2000-10-18 18:07:23 Lieberman Lieberman Holds Environment Dear WAUSAU , Wis . ( AP ) _ Democratic vice presidential candidate Joseph Lieberman said Wednesday that to him and Al Gore , protecting the environment is `` a matter of faith .'' `` The environment is the work of God ,'' Lieberman told about 500 people at Bluegill Bay Park . Lieberman kept the pressure on Texas Gov . George W. Bush 's environmental record with his visit to this battleground state the day after Gore and Republican Bush tangled in their third and final presidential debate . A day earlier in Little Rock , Ark ., Lieberman said Houston has `` the dirtiest air in America .'' `` Texas has the most industrial air pollution of any state in the country , has the third worst water pollution ,'' he said . `` I hope Governor Bush doesn't want to do for America what he 's done for Texas .'' Polls show that Wisconsin and its 11 electoral votes are up for grabs . While Vice President Gore has led in the most recent polls , his advantage has been within the margin of error . In Arkansas , Lieberman also told about 700 supporters that he and Gore would sustain the country 's economic boom and that Bush would return the country to a time of deficits and recession . He cited statistics showing improvements in the past eight years under Gore and President Clinton , including 22 million new jobs , smaller welfare rolls , and decreased crime rates . He ended each example with the refrain , `` We 're not going back . We 're going to keep going forward .'' Lieberman , an observant Jew who has argued for a greater role for religious faith in public life , has framed his arguments in recent days as a difference in fundamental values . `` It 's about our values of freedom and fairness and equal opportunity that have always defined us as Americans . Now more than ever we cannot afford to waste the talents of a single person . We can't afford to go back to the failed policies of the past ,'' he said . Lieberman also was traveling to Baltimore later in the day to attend Democratic Party fund-raisers and then to New York for an appearance Thursday on the daytime talk-show `` Live With Regis ,'' followed by a speech to the League of Conservation Voters . He said Tuesday 's presidential debate `` might have been a turning point in the election .'' `` I thought finally it clarified the differences in these two tickets and I think that 's what the American people have been waiting for . I think clearly a lot of people are swinging back and forth . They were uncertain and they were waiting for some clarity . And I just think on the important issues of who is best able to continue America 's prosperity , Al Gore is ,'' Lieberman said . APW20001019.0539.0213 NEWS STORY 2000-10-19 07:00:43 CAR-F1-Malaysian-GP Schumacher Looks Ahead and Behind SEPANG , Malaysia ( AP ) _ Michael Schumacher is still celebrating Ferrari 's first Formula One title since 1979 . `` It was a great relief crossing the line at Suzuka ,'' Schumacher said of the Oct . 8 Japanese Grand Prix . `` There has been a couple of tons of stone falling away . I 'm unable to find the exact words to express in a proper way what it was like .'' `` The pressure could not have been higher this year . Now that we have fulfilled our main wish , the pressure will be less .'' Schumacher , the German star who won titles in 1994 and 1995 with Benetton , enters Sunday 's season-ending Malaysian Grand Prix with an insurmountable 12-point lead over two-time defending champion Mika Hakkinen of McLaren . `` Now that we have achieved the first target , the next target we would like is the constructors ' championship ,'' Schumacher said . `` It is in our hands . We just need a fourth place , which is well within our means .'' Ferrari leads McLaren by 13 points . Hakkinen and McLaren teammate David Coulthard need to finish at least first and third and shut out Ferrari grab snatch the constructors ' title . However , if Schumacher and teammate Rubens Barrichello score at least three points , or if a McLaren does not win the race , Ferrari will have the constructor and driving double for the first time since 1979 , when Jody Scheckter paced Ferrari to both victories . `` It has taken five years at Ferrari to be competitive from the first race until the last ,'' Schumacher said . `` Now that we have it , it is nice to be there and we have to take advantage of the situation .'' Schumacher has eight victories this year and 43 overall , second only to Alain Prost ( 53 ) on the career list . `` I 'm still young . I 'm only 31 years old . I enjoy racing . I enjoy working with Ferrari ,'' Schumacher said . `` I simply want to enjoy more of this time like we had at Suzuka . And I am sure we will and why not enjoy it together .'' Schumacher has a contract with the Italian team through 2002 . `` It 's too early to start speculating about what I will do after 2002 ,'' Schumacher said . `` I 'll start thinking about it at the end of 2001 or at the beginning of 2002 . Not before .'' A practice session is set for Friday , and the drivers will qualify Saturday for Sunday 's 56-lap race on 3.44-mile circuit . `` I would like to win the race ,'' Schumacher said . `` I see this as a race for fun .'' APW20001021.1258.0261 NEWS STORY 2000-10-21 13:47:10 Ivory-Coast-Elections Ivory Coast Vote Sparks Rallies ABIDJAN , Ivory Coast ( AP ) _ Long processions of cars , plastered with candidates ' posters and with horns blaring , paraded through this coastal city Saturday , one day before presidential elections to end 10 months of military rule . The display of vehicles , with shouting supporters hanging out windows , marked some of the liveliest political activity since the campaign period began two weeks ago . Campaigning in Ivory Coast , once famed as an oasis of stability amid the unrest that plagues much of West Africa , has been muted . Most candidates _ including those from the country 's two largest political parties _ were excluded from the vote by the Supreme Court . Junta leader Gen. Robert Guei , who took control during a December coup promising he would quickly give up power , and who has close personal ties to the chief justice of the Supreme Court , is widely expected to win . `` The elections are already done and people here are not interested ,'' said Ali Ouattara , a journalist in the northern city of Korhogo , where a few torn and defaced posters were the only sign of the approaching vote . While there are a total of five candidates , the only other serious contender is Laurent Gbagbo , a history professor and longtime opposition leader . The country 's best-known opposition candidate , Alassane Dramane Ouattara , was excluded by the court because of what it said were questions about whether both his parents were of `` Ivorian origin ,'' as a new junta -backed constitution requires . Ouattara 's party , the Rally of the Republicans , and the former ruling Democratic Party of the Ivory Coast , whose candidates were also excluded , have both called for a boycott of the polls . Representatives of Rally of the Republicans set out on motorbikes Saturday to urge villagers in the party 's northern stronghold not to cast ballots . `` Stay in your homes , play soccer , or till the fields , but don't vote ,'' party representative Lacina Coulibaly told about 30 youths gathered in the northern village of Lanviara , near Korhogo . Guei took control during the Dec . 24 coup promising he would quickly give up power , but has since exchanged his military uniform for a snappy suit and rallied several smaller parties around his candidacy . The United Nations , the Organization of African Unity , the European Union and countries such as the United States and Canada have withdrawn election observers or funding to protest Guei 's decision to run and the exclusion of major opponents . Ivory Coast 's reputation as a haven for stability and relative wealth has been badly tarnished in recent years . It s economy has been hobbled by a steep decline in prices for it s primary exports , cocoa and coffee , while the December coup and two subsequent military mutinies have frightened Ivorians and foreign investors alike . APW20001021.1730.0351 NEWS STORY 2000-10-21 17:48:31 Germany-Neo-Nazis Germans Demonstrate Against Hate DORTMUND , Germany ( AP ) _ Thousands of Germans joined together in this western city Saturday to protest foreigner hate , the extreme right and a neo-Nazi demonstration . `` This event shall serve as a beacon for the uprising of concerned people ,'' said North Rhine-Westphalia governor Wolfgang Clement , alluding to Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder 's call for ordinary Germans to speak out against a recent wave of hate . Organizers said 20,000 people attended the event in Dortmund , an industrial center in North Rhine-Westphalia , Germany 's most populous state . Later , about 600 neo-Nazis marched through the middle of town under heavy police guard . Three officers were injured as leftist counter-demonstrators tried to break through police lines , and two leftists and two neo-Nazis were arrested . Counter-demonstrations against rightist events are common in Germany . But the events have taken on a more urgent tone because of a recent wave of awareness of hate-fueled violence that followed a still-unsolved bomb attack late July in North Rhine-Westphalia 's capital Duesseldorf . That attack left 10 recent immigrants injured , at least six of them Jews , and at least three people were killed in other hate attacks over the summer . In the latest attack Friday night , an Algerian asylum-seeker was stabbed in the arm following an argument about Germans and foreigners with two men , aged 19 and 20 . Dortmund authorities had tried to ban the Saturday neo-Nazi march , but a court late Friday evening ruled that it could go on . Clement said the counter-demonstration _ organized by citizens ' groups , political parties , sport clubs , students and teachers _ was the kind of involvement by society that would help `` again rub out from our country the brown specter from our past ,'' referring to the Nazis ' infamous brownshirts . Government efforts to stop neo-Nazis have focused on banning the small , far-right National Democratic Party , blamed for fueling some of the violence . On Friday , interior ministers meeting in Berlin delayed a decision on seeking a ban before Germany 's highest court . Bavaria Interior Minister Guenther Beckstein , one of the leading proponents of a ban , told Focus newsmagazine in an interview Saturday that he was `` firmly convinced '' a legal motion would still be filed this year . He also raised the possibility of seeking bans about Germany 's other far-right parties _ the Republicans and German Peoples Union _ both of which have had far more electoral success than the politically insignificant NPD . Some have criticized a potential party ban for it they would only drive party members underground and make them harder to monitor . Christian Worch of Hamburg , the neo-Nazi who led the Saturday demonstration , gave support to that view . `` Every ban makes us stronger and more alive ,'' he told protesters . APW20001022.1735.0376 NEWS STORY 2000-10-22 17:50:56 Alps-Flooding Five Alps Landslide Victims Buried ROME , Italy ( AP ) _ A little mountain village in northern Italy buried five victims of last week 's devastating high water and mudslides on Sunday , the day a state of emergency finally ran out . Floodwaters throughout the region , including the raging Po River , have ebbed , emptying into the Adriatic and revealing a rising toll of damage . Some roads and bridges are still closed and could remain so for some time , officials say . The death toll from the raging floodwaters and fearsome mudslides reached 37 combined for the Alpine region of northern Italy and southern Switzerland . Eighteen of those were from the Valle d'Aosta in the Italian Alps . At the church of San Maurizio in Fenis , a mountain hamlet near the city of Aosta , villagers paid their final respects to five local victims . Among them , double losses for two families _ a father and son in one , a mother and daughter in another . Amid the grief in communities throughout the stricken area , life was slowly returning to something resembling normal . But thousands were still unable to go back to their drenched or damaged homes and a huge task of rebuilding lay ahead . Authorities estimate the damage in the hundreds of million of dollars . APW20001023.0423.0148 NEWS STORY 2000-10-23 04:33:15 Mexico-Election Opposition Rejects Mexican Vote VILLAHERMOSA , Mexico ( AP ) _ In an important victory for Mexico 's embattled ruling party , Manuel Andrade on Sunday was declared the winner of the disputed governor 's race for oil-rich Tabasco state . Members of the opposition Democratic Revolution Party held a peaceful march earlier Sunday , saying they would not recognize the official results , believing they were marred by fraud . Preliminary results from the election a week ago gave Andrade a slight lead of 44 percent to 43 percent for opposition candidate Raul Ojeda . Election officials had said the race was too close to declare a winner , and they spent the past week pouring over ballots to determine the official results . Late Sunday , election officials announced that Andrade has won by more than 8,000 votes . The announcement prompted the Democratic Revolution and National Action Party representatives to resign their spots on the electoral council . Tearing up a copy of the electoral law , Democratic Revolution 's Lorena Villavicencio said she refused to `` certify fraud .'' But the ruling party 's representative , Carlos Jimenez , said : `` We won the election , and we won it without fraud .'' The election was an important test for Mexico 's ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party , or PRI , which recently lost its first presidential election since its creation in 1929 . The National Action Party 's Vicente Fox will be sworn in as president Dec . 1 . The Tabasco race has been seen as an indicator of the PRI 's ability to halt a possible collapse . The party , which never admitted losing any statewide race before 1989 , has lost several gubernatorial races in recent years _ most recently in neighboring Chiapas . The presidential loss set off a battle for control of the PRI , which has been dominated by the nation 's president since the early 1930s . A favorite for the leadership is outgoing Tabasco Gov. Roberto Madrazo , who has tried to use the election here as a demonstration of his popularity . Yet observer groups and opposition parties have accused the Tabasco elections of having the same sort of irregularities and fraud that were common in the PRI -dominated elections of Mexico 's past , and many blame Madrazo . Madrazo has denied the claims , saying Andrade is the true winner . On Sunday , the ruling party held a rally celebrating his victory . Earlier in the day , Ojeda said Fox should recognize him as the victor . `` We call on Vicente Fox to comply with his promise to guarantee democracy in the entire country ,'' he told a cheering crowd . After days of reviewing ballots , one electoral official , Joaquin Diaz , said he would not validate the results and called on other election advisers to do the same . `` I have many doubts , and I don't believe that I _ or the rest of the advisers _ have the instruments necessary to certify the results ,'' he said , adding that he thought federal election officials should step in . Floricel Medina , local director for the ruling party , said Diaz 's comments `` are not reason enough to annul the will of the people . It 's a personal opinion .'' Diaz accused the president of Tabasco 's electoral institute of favoring the PRI and pressuring election officials to close the preliminary results early to benefit Andrade . Election officials denied the accusations , saying they reviewed each ballot . `` The results are valid ,'' spokesman Marco Dominguez said . APW20001023.2100.0686 NEWS STORY 2000-10-23 21:28:28 HKN-Roy-Arrest Police : Roy 's Wife Feared Husband LITTLETON , Colo . ( AP ) _ The wife of Patrick Roy , the NHL 's winningest goalie , called 911 because she was afraid of what her husband would do as they argued about in-laws , according to a police report released Monday . Michele Roy was not hurt during the dispute at their home early Sunday , but Roy admitted pulling a bedroom door off its hinges and damaging another after his wife called Greenwood Village police and hung up without speaking , the report said . The somber Colorado Avalanche goalie , accompanied by his parents, sister and brother , stood with his hands clasped behind his back during a brief court appearance . The initial hearing was postponed until Nov . 7 . Roy remained free on a $750 bail and left by a side door without comment . His wife was absent . The judge also issued a restraining order that is standard in domestic-dispute cases , which requires Roy to refrain from alcohol and illegal drugs and possession of guns or weapons . He was permitted to return home to his family and is allowed to travel with the team to out-of-state games . After the Avalanche 's practice , Roy read a brief statement , noting that he could not comment on his arrest on the advice of his lawyer . He also asked that the public respect his family 's privacy . `` Obviously , this is creating a distraction , and my wish is that this distraction will be over soon ,'' he said . `` I am thankful for the support I am getting from my family and every one of my teammates .'' Colorado players showed unified support for Roy , saying they believe he will remain focused after an eight-game ( 6-0-2 ) unbeaten streak to start the season . The team 's next game is at home Wednesday against Nashville . `` We 've always stuck together and we 'll stick by Patrick ,'' defenseman Ray Bourque said . `` We know he is a quality person and a great family man .'' Defenseman Aaron Miller said , `` Until we find out exactly what's going on , we 're not going to let it bother us or distract us . I think I speak for the whole team that we 're behind Patty 100 percent .'' Roy , 35 , was arrested and charged Sunday with misdemeanor criminal mischief which occurred during an act of domestic violence . If convicted , he faces a maximum of one year in the county jail and a $1,000 fine , said a spokesman for the Arapahoe County district attorney 's office . Officers responded to the 911 hang-up call at Roy 's residence , where Michele Roy told them the two had been arguing . Roy was honored Friday night for winning his 448th game three days before , a 4-3 victory in overtime against the Washington Capitals . He broke the mark set by Terry Sawchuk . APW20001024.1749.0568 NEWS STORY 2000-10-24 18:29:28 Texas-State-Senate One Race May Determine Texas Senate PALESTINE , Texas ( AP ) _ With the Republicans clinging to a one-vote majority in the state Senate , control of the chamber could hinge on a single race in East Texas . Republican Todd Staples , a three-term state representative , faces Democratic lawyer David Fisher in the Nov . 7 election . Although 14 Senate seats are up for election this year , this is the only race without an incumbent . The question of which party controls the Texas Senate is especially important this year because the Senate will redraw congressional and legislative districts and could elect the next lieutenant governor if Gov . George W. Bush is elected president and is succeeded by Lt . Gov . Rick Perry . `` From a small election in one state Senate race comes a lot ,'' said Bob Stein , professor of political science at Rice University in Houston . `` It will determine the fate of the Democratic Party and , largely , the Republican Party in the state of Texas .'' The GOP captured control of the Senate in 1996 , giving Republicans their first majority in either legislative chamber in 120 years . They now hold the slimmest majority possible _ 16-15 . Around the state , only one incumbent , a Democrat , is considered vulnerable . While Democrats have controlled the Texas House since the 1870s , their majority has been diminishing since the 1980s . They now hold a 78-72 advantage . Only five of eight seats without an incumbent are contested . The heavily wooded Senate district stretches from Tyler to north of Houston , with logging , oil and gas exploration and outdoor recreation among the main industries . The district also is home to Jasper , where a black man was dragged to his death from a pickup truck by three white men in 1998 . The Senate seat in the traditionally Democratic region is being vacated by Republican Sen . Drew Nixon , who decided , with the encouragement of the GOP , not to seek another term . In 1997 , Nixon was sentenced to six months in jail for propositioning a policewoman posing as a prostitute . He did his time on weekends while continuing to serve as a lawmaker . The high-stakes race to replace Nixon has become one of the most expensive legislative contests ever . State Senate candidates typically spend less than $35,000 , Stein said . But Staples said he has raised nearly $1.9 million . Of 1,944 donors , 19 are from outside Texas . More than 835 are from outside the district . And Fisher said he has raised about $1.4 million . Of 1,400 contributors to his campaign , fewer than 20 are from out of Texas , and they contributed about 2 percent of the total amount raised , he said . About 40 percent of the contributors live in the district . Both candidates support pay raises for prison employees and more affordable health insurance for teachers and vow to oppose any plan to transfer water out of East Texas . Fisher , who is 37 and is making his first try for office , opposes school vouchers . Staples , who is also 37 , said he supports vouchers if approved by local votes . The votes of about 9,000 residents of a recreational vehicle park could be pivotal . Their eligibility to vote was challenged by other residents of the district because many of them spend most of the year traveling . But a federal judge recently cleared the way for the RV owners to vote . Staples has accused Fisher of masterminding the challenge because the RV owners largely vote Republican . Fisher denied it . ___ On the Net : Staples ' campaign : www.toddstaples.com Fisher 's campaign : www.fisher2000.com APW20001028.2128.0472 NEWS STORY 2000-10-28 21:37:46 FBO-XFL-Draft XFL Has First Draft CHICAGO ( AP ) _ `` Stone Cold '' Steve Austin , The Rock and Triple H weren't among the selections . But pro wrestling did manage to leave a mark on the first XFL draft Saturday . After all , Austin 's mass-produced signature was right there on a league credential . The new league , a joint venture of the World Wrestling Federation and NBC , features some former NFL first- rounders while promising a no holds-barred approach and off-the-mat rules when it begins in February . A black football trimmed in red and white , no fair catches on punts , no quarterback -in-the-grasp rule , miked huddles and cameras everywhere _ on the sideline , in locker rooms and in the helmets of selected players . `` We 're going for something that millions of kids played in the school yard , something that resonates with people who 've enjoyed the game on all different levels ,'' league president Basil DeVito said after helping conduct Saturday 's first 10 rounds of the draft before about 100 fans at a hotel near O'Hare International Airport . `` It 's simple ,'' DeVito said of his league 's premise . `` Nobody owns it . Nobody owns football .'' According to the league 's Web site , a quarterback 's base salary for the 10-game schedule will be about $50,000 , but players will be able to collect $2,500 bonuses for each win . It 's incentive pay and that 's fine with at least one of the league 's coaches . `` We have no negotiations , you have no owners in there . You have no owners in there in who are going to disrupt the progress of the league because it 's centrally controlled ,'' said Chicago Enforcers coach Ron Meyer , former head coach of the Patriots and Colts , who took the job when Chicago favorite Dick Butkus resigned to take a job in the league office . `` I 've been in a couple of start-up situations and I know the pitfalls ,'' Meyer said . `` It is a work in progress , certainly . But we 're light years ahead of what I envisioned .'' DeVito said the league had sold 120,000 season tickets so far and hopes to average 25,000 fans a game . `` Is it going to be perfect ? No . Nothing is ,'' LA Xtreme coach Al Luginbill said . `` But we 're going to shock some people .'' Before the draft started , the eight teams were allowed to protect picks from three colleges each . Among those designated were former NFL first- rounders Mike Croel , Alvin Harper , Tommy Maddox and Marcus Nash . Once the draft began , five quarterbacks were the first players chosen . Ex- Maryland quarterback Scott Milanovich had the distinction of being the first XFL player selected _ by the Xtreme . The Enforcers , with the last pick of the first round , nabbed running back John Avery , a first-round pick of the Miami Dolphins in 1998 . And near the end the first day _ the draft continues Sunday and Monday _ quarterback Jim Druckenmiller , a first-round choice of the San Francisco 49ers in 1997 , was selected by the Maniax with the 78th selection . Avery , Druckenmiller , running back Vaughn Dunbar and linebacker Craig Powell , who both went to the San Francisco Demons , were all NFL first-round selections . `` Interestingly , all the coaches tell me they got exactly the players they wanted ,'' DeVito said . `` And since they are still undefeated , I guess that 's OK .'' APW20001028.2128.0494 NEWS STORY 2000-10-28 22:09:40 Iraq-Flights Baghdad Airport Sanctions Lifted BAGHDAD , Iraq ( AP ) _ Saddam International Airport was busier than usual Saturday with the largest movement of planes since the United States imposed sanctions on Iraq in 1990 . Three planes arrived and two departed by the end of the day , carrying delegations of people opposed to the sanctions from Russia , Egypt , Turkey and , for the first time , the Ukraine . The sanctions were imposed to punish Iraq for its 1990 invasion of Kuwait . Organizers of recent flights say they wish to express solidarity with the Iraqi people . Iraq welcomes the flights as a sign that sanctions are collapsing . The airport closed at the outbreak of the 1991 Gulf War , receiving only occasional humanitarian flights until it was reopened for business in August . Since then , dozens of planes have flown business and cultural delegations to Baghdad in a show of support and a bid to end the sanctions . Saturday 's Egyptian delegation included more than 150 delegates , most representing unions and political parties . Actors and singers also on the flight held a benefit concert in Baghdad Saturday evening , with most of the $13 cover charge to be donated to support the Palestinian uprising . `` All my feelings have been with Iraq and the people , but this time is special because I am physically here to show my support ,'' said well-known Egyptian actress Madeha Yusri . Deputy Prime Minister Tareq Aziz received the Egyptian delegation and praised their arrival in Baghdad , stressing Arab solidarity . The Russian , Ukrainian and Turkish planes carried businessmen and doctors . Meanwhile , Palestine National Council Speaker Salim Zaanoun said the Palestinians will send a plane to Iraq on Sunday to `` challenge to the United Nations sanctions .'' Speaking in Amman , Jordan , Zaanoun said the plane will carry 20 Palestinians wounded in ongoing violence in the Palestinian territories for treatment in Iraqi hospitals . Palestinian lawmakers will also be on board the flight , which is scheduled to leave from Gaza and stop briefly in Amman on Sunday morning , Zaanoun said . He said the flight `` did not acquire permission from the U.N. Sanctions Committee .'' U.N. Security Council resolutions say that for sanctions to be lifted , Iraq must eliminate its weapons of mass destruction . Baghdad claims to have done so , but refuses to cooperate with U.N. arms inspectors . APW20001030.1921.0538 NEWS STORY 2000-10-30 19:59:00 Indonesia-US U.S . Embassy in Jakarta Still Closed JAKARTA , Indonesia ( AP ) _ The U.S . ambassador sharply criticizes Indonesia 's reform efforts . Indonesian leaders criticize him right back , calling him an interfering bully . Angry Indonesians search hotels for Americans . The U.S . Embassy closes its doors to the public . Relations between the United States and this sprawling southeast Asian nation have soured in recent months , poisoned in part by bitter exchanges between the U.S . ambassador and local officials . The problem has been compounded by anger in Indonesia , the world 's most populous Muslim country , over Washington 's stance on the Israeli - Palestinian violence _ many here say the United States has taken Israel 's side . Add the factors together , and U.S . officials don't like what they see : They have advised U.S . citizens in Indonesia to be wary . On Monday , the U.S . Embassy condemned what it described as `` hostile actions '' that threaten American lives and endanger relations along with trade , investment and tourism : _Over the weekend , Islamic militants went to hotels in the central Javanese city of Solo , demanding that American tourists leave the country within 48 hours . _The <ORG-e6 type="NOM"><FAC-e25 type="NOM">embassy</ORG>< located across Jakarta 's main park from the presidential palace , suspended its public functions for at least a week after a series of protests and threats . Muslim youths recently staged a half dozen rallies in front of the embassy to protest Washington 's perceived bias in favor of Israel . _The U.S . consulate in Indonesia 's second-largest city , Surabaya , also has been attacked , and American and Israeli flags are regularly burned in the streets . _A U.S . tourist was detained and accused of spying after photographing a riot in the province of Irian Jaya . Just a year ago , Washington was offering enthusiastic backing for Indonesia 's nascent democracy . But in the months since , reform has stalled amid rampant violence , political infighting and scandal . Sectarian fighting regularly claims lives in several Indonesian regions and pro- Indonesian militias continue to attack peacekeepers in East Timor , the territory that gained independence from Indonesia last year . Such problems have led to growing discord between Indonesian officials and U.S . Ambassador Robert Gelbard . Gelbard arrived in Jakarta last year after earning a reputation as a tough talker as President Clinton 's envoy to the Balkans . Among other things , he has publicly insisted that Indonesia 's government make good on promises to take difficult steps to fix the economy and bring to justice those responsible for the bloody destruction of East Timor after the independence vote . Indonesian lawmakers have been irritated by Gelbard 's blunt style : They prefer to conduct politics in a polite and non-confrontational way that follows the traditions of the main island of Java . Last week some members of a parliamentary committee urged the government to declare Gelbard `` persona non grata .'' The call was rejected by President Abdurrahman Wahid . `` We don't hate America as a nation , but we regret the ambassador ,'' commission chairman Ananta Baharuddin said at a committee hearing . Legislators accuse Gelbard and Washington of bullying the government . Military leaders accuse them of interfering in Indonesia 's internal affairs . In September , three of the U.N . workers stationed in East Timor were killed in Indonesian -controlled West Timor . The United States is seen as the driving force behind international pressure on Indonesia in the wake of those deaths , said Dewi Fortuna Anwar , an adviser to Wahid 's predecessor , B.J. Habibie . `` People find it very unfair that the United States harshly criticizes Indonesia over the deaths of three U.N . workers and then does not condemn Israel over the deaths of more than 100 Palestinians ,'' she said . `` Countries going through transition are always more nationalistic and sensitive to outside influences . But this is also a matter of personality ,'' Anwar said . `` What Gelbard has been up to has been the straw that has broken the camel 's back .'' Gelbard was not available for comment Monday , but in the past has maintained that the United States still strongly supports democratic reforms in Indonesia . Anwar and others warn that anti- American sentiment could rise , particularly among Wahid 's political opponents , who are pressing for his resignation . `` But just remember , if relations are allowed to deteriorate any further , Indonesia and its people have far more to lose than the United States does ,'' The Jakarta Post said in an editorial Monday . The United States gives Indonesia millions of dollars in aid and is a major market for the country 's exports . President Wahid initially enjoyed warm relations with the United States . As Indonesia 's first democratically chosen head of state in four decades , he visited Clinton twice at the White House , and Washington has been a strong supporter of International Monetary Fund aid to Indonesia . However , relations became strained after Wahid 's commitment to reform appeared to waver . They deteriorated further when Wahid made an official visit to Cuba . He has also announced plans to travel to Iraq . APW20001031.0325.0168 NEWS STORY 2000-10-31 03:44:23 Japan-Economy Japan 's Central Bank Expects Growth TOKYO ( AP ) _ Japan 's central bank on Tuesday forecast strong economic growth of between 1.9 percent and 2.3 percent for the current fiscal year _ a prediction far more optimistic than the government 's expectations . In a wide-ranging report on the outlook for the troubled economy , the Bank of Japan policy board said the country would continue a gradual private demand-led recovery over this year and next . The bank said , however , that the `` pace of recovery in personal consumption will be slow '' because it will take time for the improvement in the corporate sector to filter through to the household sector . Despite those reservations , the BOJ 's outlook for the fiscal year ending next March 31 was far rosier than the government 's . The Economic Planning Agency has forecast growth in gross domestic product at 1.5 percent . The optimistic report comes as Japan is struggling to emerge from its worst economic downturn since World War II . The economy is beginning to grow , but private demand is lagging behind the corporate recovery . Unemployment continues to be a problem . The government announced on Tuesday that the jobless rate had edged up to 4.7 percent in September . The rate was at 4.6 percent in August , after hitting a postwar record high of 4.9 percent in February . In its report Tuesday , the BOJ predicted that corporate capital investment will increase over the next 12 months , especially in information and communications-related sectors . The forecast also included projections on prices . The BOJ said the core consumer price index , which excludes fresh food prices , would fall from 0.2 percent to 0.4 percent . The forecasts reflected a range of opinion among the board members , with the lowest and highest predictions excluded . Despite the strong growth forecast , the BOJ said problems still lingered in the economy . Slow spending , coupled with structural problems such as corporate restructuring and balance sheet problems , will mean `` the expansion of the economy is unlikely to be vigorous '' the BOJ board noted . Higher oil prices were another problem . The BOJ board said that while they won't have much direct impact on the Japanese economy for the time being , they could give rise to inflation in other countries , potentially affecting Japan . The board said that while restructuring at companies and financial institutions might `` lay the foundation for economic growth over the medium to long term ,'' in the short term such moves could `` further adversely affect the economy .'' In the financial sector , the board said that bank lending was expected to stay sluggish . APW20001102.1223.0376 NEWS STORY 2000-11-02 13:27:23 Israel-Explosion Explosion Rocks Jerusalem Market JERUSALEM ( AP ) _ A car bomb exploded Thursday in a crowded outdoor market in the heart of Jerusalem , killing at least two people , police said . Ambulances raced to the Mahane Yehuda market , which sells food , vegetables and clothing in Jewish west Jerusalem . Huge plumes of black smoke rose into the sky . The blast came shortly before Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak and Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat were scheduled to make separate announcements of steps toward a cease-fire . APW20001103.1315.0364 NEWS STORY 2000-11-03 14:10:45 FBC-Rutgers-Shea Source : Rutgers Coach To Resign PISCATAWAY , N.J . ( AP ) _ Terry Shea , who failed to produce a winning season in four-plus years at Rutgers , will step down as coach at the end of this season , a source close to the school told The Associated Press Friday . Shea , who has an 11-41 record , agreed to resign after meeting with athletic director Robert E. Mulcahy on Thursday afternoon , according to the source , who spoke on the condition of anonymity . The Star-Ledger of Newark , Gannett Newspapers and The Record of Hackensack reported Friday that Shea agreed to resign . Mulcahy and Shea signed off on his resignation around 7:30 p.m ., and Shea then held a meeting with his football team at 9:30 p.m ., the source said . Rutgers athletic director Robert E. Mulcahy called a news conference for Friday at noon EST . `` That 's when it will happen ,'' the source said . Telephone calls to Mulcahy and Rutgers sports information director John Wooding by The Associated Press were not immediately returned . The Scarlet Knights are 3-5 overall and 0-5 in the Big East Conference . They have a bye this weekend , then finish the season with games against West Virginia , Notre Dame and Syracuse . After Rutgers posted a 1-10 record last season , Mulcahy told Shea he had to have a winning record this season and the team had to avoid the one-sided losses that embarrassed the school in recent years . After opening the season with wins over Villanova , a Division IAA program , and Buffalo , which recently announced its coach would not be returning next season , Rutgers lost its next five games by a combined 232-43 margin . The skid ended last week with a victory over winless Navy . Shea replaced the fired Doug Graber in 1996 with hopes of building a program with a Bill Walsh -type West Coast offense . Shea never got the talent to make it happen . He posted records of 2-9 , 0-11 , 5-6 and 1-10 . His five wins in 1998 after going winless the year before were enough to earn him Big East Coach of the Year . Rutgers was 4-29 in Big East play during Shea 's tenure , including 1-16 in league road games . The Scarlet Knights gave up 40 or more points in 23 games under Shea . Shea has one year remaining on his contract , which has a base salary of $160,000 . Rutgers reportedly had started compiling a short list of candidates to replace Shea . It includes head coaches Gary Darnell of Western Michigan , Gary Pinkel of Toledo and two coordinators _ Miami defensive coordinator Greg Schiano and Notre Dame offensive coordinator Kevin Rogers . APW20001106.1252.0310 NEWS STORY 2000-11-06 13:40:39 British-Airways-Sale British Airways To Sell Go Division LONDON ( AP ) _ British Airways PLC plans to sell Go , its profitable cut-price subsidiary launched two years ago , the company said Monday . BA announced the sale as it reported 160 percent growth in its second-quarter pretax profit , an improvement that suggests Britain 's unofficial flag carrier may finally be entering sunnier financial skies . `` Thanks to everyone who works at Go , it is now a leading European brand ,'' said Rod Eddington , British Airways ' recently appointed chief executive . `` It has made a profit every month this year . However , given the strategic goals we have set for the group as a whole , now is the time for British Airways to gain the benefits of its investment and realize the considerable value created in Go .'' Go is based at Stansted airport , northeast of London , a major base for low-fare carriers operating in Britain . BA set up Go when smaller rivals began nibbling away at its market share by offering cheaper flights across much of Europe . One such competitor , easyJet , has long accused BA of unfairly subsidizing Go . BA has denied the accusation but until now has not said whether Go was making money . British Airways reported a pretax profit of 200 million pounds ($290 million ) in the second quarter ending Sept . 30 , compared to 40 million pounds a year ago . Its quarterly operating profit improved to 361 million pounds ($523 million ) from 211 million pounds a year ago . This income growth indicated that BA 's new strategy of trying to attract more business and first-class passengers has started to pay off . BA said its number of premium passengers increased by 7.7 percent during the quarter , while revenues for the first six months of the year rose 4.9 percent to 4.86 billion pounds ($7.05 billion ). `` We are taking a ruthless approach towards poorly performing routes and assets ,'' said Eddington . `` Those not adding value are being removed . It is imperative that each of our aircraft generates shareholder value .'' The airline said it plans to cut capacity worldwide by 10 percent in next summer 's schedule . `` We have a number of different businesses operating separately within Europe . We are currently examining how we can better rationalize and integrate their activities to deliver better value for the group overall ,'' Eddington said . Company shares jumped 7 percent to 352 pence ($5.10 ) each in midday trading on the London Stock Exchange . BA , the world 's fourth-biggest airline in terms of passenger traffic , has struggled to find its way in recent years . It lost 50 million pounds ($75 million ) in the first quarter , due to high fuel costs and competition , and last year was the airline 's worst since the British government privatized it . Competition has become intense , particularly on its core trans- Atlantic flights , and former chief executive Bob Ayling resigned in March after a troubled four-year stint . Talks on a long-planned merger with KLM Royal Dutch Airlines collapsed in September . APW20001107.1227.0371 NEWS STORY 2000-11-07 13:53:14 China-Airlines Airbus : China Needs 1,600 Planes BEIJING ( AP ) _ China will need almost 1,600 new aircraft over the next two decades to meet its goals for growth in air travel , Airbus Industrie said Tuesday . Passenger traffic on Chinese carriers will grow at an annual rate of 7.7 percent until the end of 2019 , requiring them to triple their number of seats from 97,000 to about 380,000 , the European aircraft consortium said . To keep up , Airbus estimated China 's 19 airlines will need 1,570 new passenger planes and 26 new cargo carriers at a total cost of $149 billion . The China market 's anticipated growth far outpaces an expected worldwide 4.9 percent annual rise in passenger traffic over the next two decades , according to Airbus . APW20001110.1844.0453 NEWS STORY 2000-11-10 19:11:39 Lockerbie-Trial Lockerbie Trial Hears Terrorist AMSTERDAM , Netherlands ( AP ) _ A Palestinian terrorist began his testimony Friday in the trial of two Libyans accused of bombing Pan Am Flight 103 , describing his role in attacks against Israel in the 1970s . Mohammed Abu Talb , whose appearance at the special Scottish <FAC-e6 type="NOM"><ORG-e56 type="NOM">court</FAC>< had been delayed for weeks , testified for the prosecution . He was called in an effort to discredit the defendants ' claim that his group , the Palestine Popular Struggle Front , played a role in the 1988 bombing over Lockerbie , Scotland . Abu Talb , the last major prosecution witness , has been jailed in Sweden for attacks against Jewish and American targets in Europe . He has denied any involvement in the Lockerbie bombing , which killed 270 people . He admitted carrying out a terrorist attack in Denmark in 1985 that killed a Jewish civilian . Defendants Abdel Basset Ali al-Megrahi and Lamen Khalifa Fhimah blame Abu Talb and other Palestinians for the 1988 attack . Prosecutors say the two defendants , who are alleged to be Libyan secret agents , sent a suitcase from the Mediterranean island of Malta carrying an explosives -laden cassette recorder and routed it through Frankfurt , Germany , to the doomed airliner in London . Dressed in a plain dark suit and tie , Abu Talb was flanked by Scottish prison guards as he took the witness stand , separated from the public gallery by a wall of bulletproof glass . He was questioned by prosecutor Alan Turnbull . The Egyptian -born Palestinian told judges that he deserted the Egyptian army in the mid-1970s , fleeing to Lebanon via Jordan with a false passport . He obtained a fake Moroccan passport before joining the Palestine Popular Struggle Front in 1974 . `` I undertook various missions ,'' 46-year-old Abu Talb said , describing his terrorist past against Israel . `` In the beginning , I was doing military operations , and then I went to security , after which I was the special bodyguard of the secretary-general of the organizations .'' The trial resumed this week after a month of delays following the disclosure that new evidence surfaced on another group , the Damascus -based Palestinian Front for the Liberation of Palestine-General Command . The PFLP-GC , like the PPSF , was initially suspected in the Lockerbie attack . On Wednesday , Scottish judges asked Syria to hand over a document that could help prove who blew up the New York -bound jetliner . Defense lawyer Bill Taylor said the document contains information on German police raids of an alleged Palestinian terrorist base months before the bombing . In the `` Autumn Leaves '' operation , police entered a PFLP-GC hide-out in Neuss , Germany . They found an explosive device similar to one that triggered the Pan Am explosion . The judges did not explain what the requested document contained or how it came to be in Syrian hands . APW20001112.0900.0305 NEWS STORY 2000-11-12 10:42:53 Indonesia-Aceh 6 Die in Indonesia 's Aceh Province BANDA ACEH , Indonesia ( AP ) _ Police searched for separatist activists in Indonesia 's war-torn Aceh province Sunday after tens of thousands of people rallied demanding an independence referendum . The bodies of six people were found in the eastern part of the region Sunday , raising the death toll from four days of violence to 25 , local hospital officials and police said . Two were soldiers , they said . Most of the civilian victims were shot by security forces . Indonesia 's reformist-minded President Abdurrahman Wahid has blamed the army and police for the deaths . In the provincial capital Banda Aceh , Indonesian security forces opened fire at two cars after the rally Saturday night , injuring six local residents . Security forces patrolled the city in armored vehicles , and officers carried out random identification checks , looking for separatist leaders . Police blocked off roads and prevented thousands from returning home . Intercity buses were shut down . Local media reports estimated that up to 100,000 people rallied Saturday in Banda Aceh , demanding a U.N .-supervised vote for independence . Witnesses put the figure at about 30,000 . The rally 's organizers accused security forces of preventing pro-independence residents from reaching the capital for the rally , which last year attracted an estimated 250,000 people . Separatists have fought since 1975 for independence in Aceh , which is rich in oil and gas and has a population of about 4.1 million people . At least 5,500 people have been killed there in the past decade . The government plans to meet with the rebel group , the Free Aceh Movement , in Switzerland this week to try to stem the recent escalation in bloodshed . Both sides signed a truce in Geneva on June 2 , but the violence has continued , killing at least 227 people since then . Meanwhile , a U.N . Security Council fact-finding team arrived Sunday in East Timor , which won broke from Indonesia last year . The mission was to assess the security situation on the island after the deaths of three U.N . aid workers in Indonesian West Timor in September . APW20001113.1815.0535 NEWS STORY 2000-11-13 18:21:15 Denmark-US-Ballots Presidential Ballots in Denmark COPENHAGEN , Denmark ( AP ) _ A Danish couple were surprised this weekend when two absentee ballots from the U.S . presidential election turned up in their mail . Brian Kain , a 33-year-old accountant and sailing enthusiast , eagerly opened a large envelope when it arrived Saturday with some information about navigation charts that he had ordered from a company based in the state of Washington . He assumed two extra sealed yellow envelopes inside the package were ads and planned to throw them away until his wife , Helle , opened one of them to discover the absentee ballot of Steven H. Forrester of Bellevue , Wash . `` The most interesting thing to me was the free chart and the brochure ,'' said Kain . The Kains didn't open the second envelope but assumed it also was a ballot since both were marked with the words `` Official ballot _ do not delay .'' They contacted the U.S . Embassy in Copenhagen on Monday and were asked to put the envelopes in the mail . Embassy spokeswoman Lela Margiou said they were waiting to receive the ballots and had not yet decided what to do with them . `` It 's kind of unusual ,'' Margiou said , adding that the ballots `` were not valid , were not meaningful because counting in Washington State has been completed .'' Kain had ordered the information via the Internet from Tides End Ltd . of Washington . The large envelope , which was postmarked from Shaw Island , arrived unsealed at the Kains ' home in Odense , 105 miles west of the capital , Copenhagen . The Fyens Stiftstidende , the main local newspaper , said it contacted Forrester to tell him his ballot had landed in Denmark and he did not understand how it could have been postmarked in Shaw Island , 50 miles from where his wife mailed it in Bellevue . Forrester told the newspaper he had no plans of pursuing the matter . `` The vote is , I think , over ,'' he was quoted as saying . The U.S . presidential race between Republican nominee Texas Gov . George W. Bush and Democratic Vice President Al Gore remained undecided Monday with the state of Florida 's 25 electoral votes still at stake . APW20001113.2122.0704 NEWS STORY 2000-11-13 21:43:28 ELN-Unfinished-House Five House Races Still Unsettled WASHINGTON ( AP ) _ Doubts remain in five races for the House of Representatives , and while recounts are likely to extend the indecision they have no chance of erasing the Republican majority for the incoming 107th Congress . The Associated Press has called winners in all but two House races : New Jersey 's 12th district battle between incumbent Democratic Rep . Rush Holt and GOP challenger Dick Zimmer , who formerly held the seat ; and in Florida 's 22nd District , where veteran GOP Rep . Clay Shaw has claimed a 586-vote victory following a recount over Democrat Elaine Bloom . But there remained some doubt about narrow decisions in Minnesota , California and Michigan , where the apparent losers refusing to concede and recounts have either begun or are likely . In Michigan 's 8th District , Republican Mike Rogers was leading Democrat Dianne Byrum by just 152 votes during a recanvass that must be completed by Nov . 21 . Rogers has claimed the seat and was taking part in freshman orientation events at the Capitol on Monday . `` In my mind , the campaign is over ,'' Rogers said . `` I 'm here trying to prepare for the next couple of years .'' In Minnesota , Republican Mark Kennedy won a 150-vote decision over four-term Democratic Rep . David Minge for the 2nd District seat . Minge has said he will file a lawsuit to request a recount , but under state law he must wait until the results are certified Nov . 21 . Rep . Steve Horn , R - Calif ., had a more comfortable margin of 1,616 votes in his 38th District victory over Democrat Gerrie Schipske , but she has refused to concede and awaits the results of absentee ballots and provisional ballots cast by people whose names didn't immediately match lists at polling stations . About 2,500 of these same provisional ballots also apparently hold the key to the New Jersey race between Holt and Zimmer , but further court action could delay a final result for some time . And in Florida , the same Palm Beach County disputes involved in the presidential recount could lead to legal action by Bloom . Not counting the Florida and New Jersey races , Republicans now hold 220 seats in the incoming House and the Democrats have 211 . There are two independents , one aligned with each party , effectively giving the GOP an edge of 221-212 . APW20001118.1953.0586 NEWS STORY 2000-11-18 20:02:05 Egypt-Women's-Summit Arab Women Leaders Meet CAIRO , Egypt ( AP ) _ Ten of the Arab world 's first ladies joined activists in an unusual gathering Saturday to push for the improved status of women in their male-dominated societies . Queen Rania of Jordan , Egypt 's Suzanne Mubarak and others were using their charisma and influence to campaign on behalf of women in this three-day meeting of women leaders and campaigners for equality of the sexes . `` Development will not achieve its goals unless women participate in it as complete and effective partners in all fields ,'' Queen Rania told an audience of more than 2,000 from 19 countries . She called for `` legal and legislative reforms that achieve equality and justice for women .'' Mubarak , wife of Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak and one of the conference organizers , said they must find ways to respect the social differences that distinguish Arab countries while still cooperating to attain the summit 's main goal : creating a better life for Arab women . The status of women varies among countries in the Arab world . Although women in some parts of the Persian Gulf , such as conservative Saudi Arabia , are required to be covered from head-to-toe and are not allowed to drive , their counterparts in more liberal countries , including Jordan , Egypt and Lebanon , enjoy more freedom and richer public lives . However , illiteracy , marginalized decision-making roles and under-representation in politics are problems Arab women share . Many women , though , are struggling to change the status quo and have achieved some gains . This year in Egypt , for example , avid campaigning helped women reverse laws that prevented them from obtaining divorce and traveling abroad without their husbands ' permission . Many of the speakers underlined the importance of meeting the demands of the modern society while still preserving Arab identity , traditions and beliefs . Others talked of the challenge of presenting a more positive , well-rounded image of Arab women in the face of negative stereotypes . Some attendees , however , were skeptical the gathering would reach any strong proposals . Haifa Ezzi , a Saudi researcher interested in women 's issues , said some of the speeches `` were full of unrealistic rhetoric .'' Saudi Arabia , Qatar and Algeria were the only Arab League countries that did not send delegates to the summit . The meeting was attended by the first ladies of Bahrain , Comoros , Egypt , Jordan , Kuwait , Lebanon , Morocco , the Palestinian territories , Sudan and Tunisia . APW20001118.1953.0594 NEWS STORY 2000-11-18 20:15:29 Jesse-Ventura Callers Admonish Ventura ST. PAUL ( AP ) _ Gov. Jesse Ventura 's weekly radio show has been flooded with calls about his new part-time job as a football commentator . `` You belong to the people , 100 percent , 24-hours-a-day , seven days a week ,'' one caller admonished Friday . Others said his association with the XFL _ a rough-and-tumble league organized by NBC and the World Wrestling Federation _ degraded his office . Ventura brushed aside the criticism , saying he would stop if the XFL becomes too raunchy or he deems it in `` any way unacceptable to my position as governor .'' Meanwhile , Democratic state Sen. Ellen Anderson said she would introduce a bill to make the job of governor a part-time position , similar to state lawmaker positions . `` It would fit in ( Ventura 's ) political philosophy and it would take away the criticism of him taking outside jobs ,'' she said . In a contract announced Thursday , the former wrestler agreed to work 10 Saturday night games starting in February . He can miss them if state business demands it . APW20001120.1450.0376 NEWS STORY 2000-11-20 14:50:49 Afghanistan-Prisoner-Release Taliban Releases 137 Prisoners KABUL , Afghanistan ( AP ) _ The ruling Taliban militia on Monday released 137 Shiite Muslim prisoners it had held for nearly two years and urged the opposition to follow suit and release government prisoners it is holding . The freed men , all said to be fighters belonging to the opposition alliance , were released ahead of the Islamic holy month of Ramadan , when devout Muslims fast from sunrise to sunset . `` The prisoners are being released as a gesture of kindness '' by the Taliban 's supreme leader Mullah Mohammed Omar , said the Taliban 's Interior Minister Abdul Razzak Akhund . `` We ask the opposition to show their heart and release government prisoners in their jails .'' The opposition alliance , which controls barely five percent of Afghanistan and is fighting a war against the dominant Taliban , is mostly made up of the country 's minority ethnic and religious groups . The Taliban are predominantly Sunni Muslim , which is the majority Islamic sect in the country . The Taliban have been accused by international human rights groups of mistreating the minority Shiite Muslims , a charge they reject . The newly released prisoners were captured when the Taliban took control of Afghanistan 's central Bamyan province , nearly two years ago . The area is largely inhabited by minority Shiite Muslims . `` I am very happy to be going home ,'' said Ali Jan , one of the prisoners who said he was a farmer in Bamyan and not a soldier . APW20001124.1445.0280 NEWS STORY 2000-11-24 15:13:11 Cheney-Hospitalized Cheney To Be Released From Hospital WASHINGTON ( AP ) _ Republican vice presidential candidate Dick Cheney , said by his doctor to be recovering well from a mild heart attack , was being released from the hospital Friday . `` He 's going home ,'' said Cheney chief of staff Kathleen Shanahan . The 59-year-old Cheney 's examining physician said Thursday the patient was in good condition and that he looked great while resting up and enjoying Thanksgiving at George Washington University Hospital . APW20001124.1811.0405 NEWS STORY 2000-11-24 18:11:15 Germany-Music-Piracy Hewlett-Packard To Pay German Fees FRANKFURT , Germany ( AP ) _ Computer giant Hewlett-Packard Corp . has become the first company to be snagged by a German law requiring firms to pay fees for making CD burners that are being used to illegally lift the latest hits off the World Wide Web . The case sets the stage for other European countries to possibly adopt similar rules to stem an epidemic that cost the music industry an estimated $5 billion last year . But analysts blasted the agreement reached Thursday as another example of Germany 's notorious thatch of regulations . `` The manufacturers are scapegoats ,'' said Robert Labatt , a new media analyst at research group Gartner . `` It 's the individual works of art , books , songs , videos , that need to be protected .'' Many of Germany 's neighbors , including France , Italy and Greece , have similar laws meant to protect authors and musicians by nailing makers of equipment used to violate copyright laws . But the laws date back decades and focus on devices like tape recorders and video players . The German case against Hewlett-Packard extends Germany 's pre-existing law into the digital age , when such things as CD burners , computer printers , hard drives and high-speed modems make it easier to copy and transfer copyrighted items . According to the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry , about 500 million CDs are pirated annually by people creating their own CDs from downloaded tunes off the Internet . More than 25 million pirated music files are available online , the group estimates . All told , that racked up a $1 billion for Europe 's $10 billion music industry last year , and cost EU governments around $72 million in lost tax revenues , the group says . Several lawsuits have been filed around the world , including an ongoing lawsuit a number of record companies have brought against Napster Inc ., whose software allows users to easily swap music files . GEMA , German 's main licensing group , targeted Hewlett-Packard as a test case in May , reasoning that the company leads the German market leader in CD burners . But Hewlett-Packard dug in its heels when it was ordered to pay 30 marks ($12.90 ) for each CD burner sold in Germany since February 1998 . The legal battle continued until Thursday , when an agreement was reached to have Hewlett-Packard pay 3.60 marks ($1.54 ) for each unit sold during that period while agreeing to pay 12 marks ($5.16 ) for each one sold in the future . Hewlett-Packard spokeswoman Jeannette Weisschuh refused to say how much that would set the company back . But she criticized the settlement for putting Hewlett-Packard at a disadvantage against foreign online retailers who , unburdened by such fees , can sell cheaper CD burners . `` This was a trial to set an example for the whole market ,'' said Weisschuh . `` It 's unfair to the consumers who have to pay more and unfair to the manufacturers because it gives us a competitive disadvantage .'' Other companies selling CD burners in Germany will also be subject to the fees , which could vary depending on what kind of agreement they reach with GEMA . The Hewlett-Packard settlement is expected to set a benchmark , however . Currently , equipment manufacturers pay 2.50 marks ($1.07 ) for each cassette recorder and 18 marks ($7.74 ) for each video recorder sold in Germany . The fees , which are not collected by the government , are distributed by GEMA to copyright owners through recording houses and music distributors . APW20001126.1818.0460 NEWS STORY 2000-11-26 19:05:38 SKorea-Workers-Protest S.Korea Workers Decry Restructuring SEOUL , South Korea ( AP ) _ Two major South Korean labor groups rallied about 15,000 workers in central Seoul on Sunday to protest government -led corporate restructuring they fear will lead to mass layoffs . It was the first such joint rally in three years for the Federation of Korean Trade Unions and the militant Korean Confederation of Trade Unions . The two have a combined membership of 1.8 million . The protesters , many carrying signs or wearing red headbands and vests with slogans such as `` Fight '' and `` Solidarity '' printed on them , chanted and pumped their fists in the air . `` If we will be driven out to the streets just for working hard , let ' s not work . Let ' s strike !'' said Kim Yon-hwan , head of an umbrella group for state utility labor unions . The workers marched from Seoul train station to a cathedral a few miles away , clogging up traffic . They dispersed peacefully after the 2 1/2-hour-long rally . Thousands of uniformed police officers , some with shields , stood around the protesters to guard against possible violence , but there was no report of clashes . The protest was partly in support of workers at Korea Electric Power Corp. , a state -run power company which the government plans to break into several units and sell . A 950-megawatt electric power plant belonging to the firm has already been sold to a consortium of local and foreign firms . Experts say the nation 's economy might face recession if the government does not speed up restructuring heavily indebted businesses and banks . In a drastic measure earlier this month , government -controlled creditor banks named 52 financially weak companies that should be shut down or merged for sale . The move shocked tens of thousands of workers who work for those and other financially shaky companies , which have been surviving on emergency bank loans . South Korea was forced to accept a $58 billion bailout fund from the International Monetary Fund in late 1997 to save its economy . In return , it promised to restructure its bloated businesses and inefficient financial sector . APW20001127.1346.0419 NEWS STORY 2000-11-27 14:24:22 BBA-Rangers-Rodriguez A-Rod To Meet With Texas Rangers ARLINGTON , Texas ( AP ) _ One of baseball 's biggest free-agent prizes , Alex Rodriguez is getting red-carpet treatment from the Texas Rangers . And even the Dallas Stars are lending a hand in trying to win over the All-Star shortstop . Rodriguez and agent Scott Boras were expected to meet Monday with Rangers owner Tom Hicks . He will be joined by general manager Doug Melvin , manager Johnny Oates and several players . The team 's bid for Rodriguez hasn't been slowed by the expected demand of at least a 10-year contract , in the range of $20 million a year , loaded with fringe benefits . `` We feel at the expense of last year , we have our roster where we don't have to trade people to make this work ,'' Melvin said in the Fort Worth Star-Telegram on Monday . `` I 'm not saying we have all the money in the world , but we don't have to bust our budget completely . We 're in a better position than most other clubs .'' Stars center Mike Modano is being called in to help show Rodriguez around the Dallas-Fort Worth area and tell him why it would be a great place to play . Melvin said he doesn't expect the Rangers to make a formal offer until they can gauge the level of interest from Rodriguez . The 25-year-old shortstop , who hit .316 with 41 homers and 132 RBIs at Seattle last season , also reportedly has been targeted by the Chicago White Sox , Los Angeles Dodgers , New York Mets and Atlanta Braves . The Mariners , Rodriguez 's team the past six years , also wanted to re-sign him . `` This gives us a chance to tell him about our organization and the direction we 're going , answer any questions they might have about us ,'' Melvin said . Some even have a neighborhood _ the fashionable Dallas suburb of Highland Park _ picked out for Rodriguez . Neighbors of one available residence _ a five-bedroom spread worth $11.95 million _ would include Hicks , Modano and Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones . `` Alex needs to buy this house ,'' Ronda Needham , a listing agent , told The Dallas Morning News . `` The people who own this house set it up around their two baseball-playing sons . It 's a very sports-minded house .'' The Mets , once considered the favorites to get Rodriguez , have slowed their chase . General manager Steve Phillips publicly criticized some of the demands supposedly made by Boras . But the agent says Rodriguez is making no special demands . `` I can't anticipate any change that would draw us back into it ,'' Phillips said . APW20001129.1802.0602 NEWS STORY 2000-11-29 18:28:28 Copley-Sale Sale of Copley Newspaper Delayed CHICAGO ( AP ) _ A federal judge has issued a temporary restraining order against Copley Press Inc. blocking the sale of The News Sun in Waukegan to Hollinger International . The judge 's ruling was prompted by a lawsuit filed last week by the union representing editorial workers at the paper , which claims the sale would not require Hollinger to honor a collective-bargaining agreement reached between the paper and employees . Lawyers for the Chicago Newspaper Guild say language in the agreement is `` not satisfactory .'' U.S. District Judge Blanche Manning on Tuesday barred the sale of the paper for at least 10 days , giving Copley time to reword the agreement . `` If the sale were allowed to proceed , the union would be without a legal remedy and would suffer the irreparable harm of having the ( agreement ) being rendered a nullity ,'' Manning wrote . After the hearing , lawyers for Copley would not say if they would appeal Manning 's restraining order . Calls to Douglas A. Darch , an attorney for Copley , were not immediately returned on Wednesday . The guild has filed a grievance to have the matter arbitrated with Copley before the sale is completed . Hollinger International , owner of the Chicago Sun-Times and the Daily Southtown in Tinley Park , is attempting to acquire The News Sun and other northern Illinois Copley newspapers , including The Courier News in Elgin , The Beacon News in Aurora and The Herald News in Joliet . Although the ruling did not mention the other Copley Press papers , it is expected that The News Sun issue will have be resolved before the sale of the entire group is finalized . APW20001130.2108.0849 NEWS STORY 2000-11-30 21:13:04 Britain-Homosexual-Consent Britain Forces Through Consent Law LONDON ( AP ) _ After three defeats in the House of Lords , Britain 's Labor government resorted to rarely used powers Thursday to pass legislation lowering the age of consent for homosexuals from 18 to 16 . House of Commons speaker Michael Martin said he was invoking the Parliament Act to force through a Sexual Offenses Bill that makes the age of consent the same for both homosexuals and heterosexuals . It became law after being given Royal Assent by Queen Elizabeth II . Lawmakers in the House of Commons overwhelmingly approved the bill earlier this year , but the House of Lords this month rejected it for the third time . The Lords ' powers , however , are limited to delaying legislation by blocking it and bouncing it back to the House of Commons . The Parliament Act was created to ensure that the will of the country 's elected lawmakers prevails . The bill brings Britain in line with most other European Union nations . `` It is a reform which , in my personal view , is long overdue and is only right for a country that has a history of reform and challenging prejudice ,'' said Home Secretary Jack Straw , Britain 's top law enforcement officer . `` This act will help us to build a safe , just and tolerant society ,'' he added . Angela Mason , director of the gay rights group Stonewall , said Parliament 's action was `` a great step toward equality .'' `` When the history books come to be written I believe it will be seen as the moment when this country finally began to change , when lesbians and gay men started to take our place as equal members of society ,'' she said . Peter Tatchell , of the group OutRage !, said : `` This victory is a welcome and historic milestone in the long struggle for gay human rights .'' `` My only regret is that it has taken 33 years during which time hundreds of gay men have been unjustly jailed for victimless relationships .'' However , family values campaigner and Conservative ex-Leader of the Lords Baroness Young accused the government of behaving in a `` completely dictatorial manner '' toward Parliament . Straw dismissed the criticism . `` In the circumstances I believe that the use of the Parliament Act in this case is proper and justified ,'' he said . Five years ago , Parliament narrowly rejected lowering the age of consent for homosexuals to 16 , reducing it instead from 21 to 18 . Homosexual sex between adults ceased to be a crime in Britain three decades ago . APW20001202.0257.0120 NEWS STORY 2000-12-02 03:26:26 FBC-Arizona-St-Coach Koetter Accepts ASU Coaching Job PHOENIX ( AP ) _ Boise State coach Dirk Koetter , who just a day earlier was reportedly headed for Oklahoma State , has agreed to a contract to coach Arizona State . Oklahoma State athletic director Terry Don Phillips confirmed Koetter 's decision in a news release issued Friday night . `` Coach Koetter informed me at approximately 7 p.m . ( CST ) tonight that he had been tendered an offer from Arizona State University and had accepted ,'' Phillips said . Koetter , 41 , replaces Bruce Snyder , who was fired after nine seasons . Snyder will coach Arizona State in a bowl game , most likely the Las Vegas Bowl . The Daily Oklahoman and several TV and radio stations in Oklahoma had reported Thursday and Friday that Koetter had accepted the Oklahoma State job . But Phillips never confirmed those reports , and Koetter would not comment on any job possibilities at Boise State 's practice Friday . Koetter said earlier in the week he had interviewed with Phillips and with Arizona State athletic director Gene Smith . Koetter is considered one of the country 's top young coaching prospects . Using an innovative , wide-open offense , he guided Boise State to a 25-10 record in three seasons . His first team went 6-5 , followed by last year 's 10-3 record , which included a 34-31 victory over Louisville in the Humanitarian Bowl . This year 's team is 9-2 , with its only losses 38-31 at Arkansas and 42-25 at Washington State . Koetter may not have been Arizona State 's top choice . Phoenix radio station KMVP reported Friday that Smith had quietly been working on a deal with TCU coach Dennis Franchione that would have matched the one offered by Alabama . But Franchione apparently couldn't resist the lure of one of college football 's most storied programs . While most of the recent speculation centered on Koetter , there was pressure from some Arizona State boosters to hire Danny White , the former Arizona State and Dallas Cowboys quarterback who coaches the Arizona Rattlers of the Arena Football League . Snyder was fired after his teams went 6-6 last year and 6-5 this season . APW20001202.0257.0136 NEWS STORY 2000-12-02 03:36:58 Nerve-Gas Army , Colo . Agree on Nerve Gas Plan DENVER ( AP ) _ State and Army officials agreed Friday on a plan to destroy six `` bomblets ,'' at least half containing deadly sarin nerve gas , that were found in a scrap metal heap at the Rocky Mountain Arsenal . The plan calls for the canisters to be taken to a vapor-tight building that would have to be constructed at the 27-square-mile arsenal northeast of Denver . The bomblets would be placed in an oven-sized chamber inside the building , then cracked open with a small explosive charge . The nerve gas would then be neutralized with a caustic chemical . `` We believe that this provides the highest level of assurances that these bomblets will be disposed of as safely and as quickly as possible ,'' Gov. Bill Owens said Friday . He said the process could take five to seven weeks . The first of the grapefruit-size bomblets was found by workers removing industrial waste from a scrap pile on Oct . 16 . So far , three of the M-139 bomblets have been confirmed to contain sarin , the same chemical used in a Tokyo subway attack in 1995 that killed 12 people . The arsenal is being converted into a wildlife refuge , but during the Cold War , sarin was manufactured there . The bomblets were designed to be carried in a battlefield tactical missile in clusters of 368 . Each bomblet holds 1.3 pounds of sarin , designed to kill everyone within 900 feet . Owens said at least one of the bomblets found had a serial number that identified it as a test model . He said the Army told him all the production bomblets had been accounted for . The state and the Army have been at odds about the handling of the bomblets . Owens complained to Defense Secretary William Cohen , prompting a meeting Friday between the governor and Gen. John Coburn , commander of the Army Material Command . Owens said state health and environmental experts would meet with Army officials next week to ensure the plan is sound . He said the Army also agreed to extensively search the area where the bomblets were found . Residents living nearby have questioned whether the Army knows what other dangers might be buried there . `` I 'll take their word they 're going to do the best they , can but sooner or later something else will turn up . It always has ,'' said Jeff Kanost , who has lived near the site since 1978 . APW20001202.2035.0562 NEWS STORY 2000-12-02 20:59:26 Fox-Open-Border Skepticism Greets Fox 's Border Plan BROWNSVILLE , Texas ( AP ) _ In speech after speech , Mexico President Vicente Fox argues for his dream : A free flow of workers across an open border , an international boundary that ceases to be a barrier . But the 2,000-mile frontier between Mexico and the United States is delineated by steel walls and barbed wire , watched over by uniformed guards from the Border Patrol . `` It will never happen ,'' Rosalinda Arebalo of neighboring Matamoros , Mexico , said flatly of Fox 's dream . `` If it did , it would be a miracle .'' If anything , the border is closing down . The United States announced plans this fall to step up border security with 1,300 miles of road and fence , cameras and thousands of portable floodlights . From 1993 through 1999 , the number of Border Patrol agents doubled from 4,000 to 8,000 . `` I 'll be honest , your country isn't ready for it ,'' said Fernando Kleinfingher , a computer consultant in Tijuana , Mexico . `` It would be very hard for America to accept .'' `` The United States will never allow an open border ,'' predicted Faustino Avalos , a 65-year-old farmer strolling home to Matamoros . `` They only want Mexicans to visit and buy things . The undocumented workers get nothing but injustice .'' Economists say the skepticism is well-founded . `` It 's a totally unrealistic proposal ,'' said Steve Bronars , a professor of economics at the University of Texas at Austin . `` It's just not something that 's going to happen .'' Fox , who was sworn into office Friday , first pledged to open the border during a heated campaign to overturn the ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party . Pressed for details after his July election , the former Coca-Cola executive revised his scheme , promising to bring Mexican wages up to U.S. standards and open the border within 10 years , although he remains vague about a schedule . Economists say an unfettered flow of Mexican workers could drive wages down and strain social services to the breaking point , particularly in border states . On top of that , adds El Paso Mayor Carlos Ramirez : `` There are safety issues of drugs , terrorists and contraband .'' President Clinton and Vice President Al Gore were noncommittal in August meetings with Fox . And Texas Gov. George W. Bush said he supported `` a humane way '' of cracking down on migration from `` our friendly neighbor to the south .'' `` I appreciate ( Fox 's ) optimistic vision ,'' Bush said . Mark Krikorian , director of the nonpartisan , Washington -based Center for Immigration Studies , believes Fox 's call for an open border is a `` bargaining chip .'' Fox will demand a porous boundary and then settle for an increase in legal migration , he predicted . `` He 's hoping the United States will split the difference ,'' Krikorian said . It 's a good time to cut a deal . U.S. unemployment is at its lowest in three decades and there are fewer people to fill low-skilled jobs in farms , restaurants and factories . That scenario rings familiar to Arebalo , 49 , who went from Matamoros to North Carolina to work in soybean fields when she was a girl . Her family needed the money and the farms needed the help . Those were the days of the Bracero Program , World War II-era legislation that beckoned thousands of Mexican nationals to replenish a dwindling U.S. labor pool . In 1954 , a military -style Immigration and Naturalization Service campaign called `` Operation Wetback '' drove about 1 million illegal immigrants back into Mexico . Ten years later , the Bracero Program fizzled out . `` Back then it was simple to get papers to work here , and you could just come across ,'' Arebalo said as she stepped off the international bridge into Brownsville 's shopping district . `` But then everything changed .'' ___ On the Net : Immigration and Naturalization Service : http://www.ins.gov APW20001203.1456.0329 NEWS STORY 2000-12-03 15:42:20 Watts-Gridiron Watts Jokes About Election Impasse WHITE SULPHUR SPRINGS , W.Va . ( AP ) _ Republican Rep . J.C. Watts joked Saturday night that he had revised returns on the presidential election : `` Al Gore , 9,834 lawsuits . George W. Bush , 7,652 .'' Watts , chairman of the House Republican Conference , bantered about the Florida election dispute in a speech prepared for a dinner of The Gridiron Club at the Greenbrier Hotel . `` I knew things had really deteriorated when Yasser Arafat offered to broker a peace between Bush and Gore ,'' Watts said . The Gridiron Club is an organization of 60 Washington journalists . Its dinners feature parodies of politics and government , and humorous speeches by political figures . Watts noted that the presidential election of 1876 was so disputed that a congressional commission was created to settle it . `` I didn't know this until Strom Thurmond told me he cast the deciding vote . `` Strom will be 98 next Tuesday ,'' Watts said . `` Of course , he was only 67 when the recount of Florida ballots began .'' Watts said he had fond memories of Florida because he was the quarterback when the University of Oklahoma won the Orange Bowl there in 1980 and 1981 . `` But our victory in '81 was by a single point and it was weeks before it was confirmed ,'' he said . `` By the way , I recently learned Al Gore was pulling for Florida State and demanded a recount .'' As is traditional in Gridiron speeches , Watts concluded on a serious note . `` Once-in-a-century oddities may leave an election result up in the air for a time , but the fundamental strength of our democracy is never in doubt ,'' he said . `` Better a process driven by an army of lawyers than an outrage led by an army with guns ,'' he said . APW20001204.2149.0765 NEWS STORY 2000-12-04 21:55:56 FBC-Georgia-Donnan Georgia Fires Coach Jim Donnan ATHENS , Ga . ( AP ) _ Georgia fired football coach Jim Donnan Monday after a disappointing 7-4 season that started with the Bulldogs ranked No . 10 and picked to win the SEC East , his players said . `` I thought he would be around another year ,'' said quarterback Cory Phillips , who was at a team meeting at which Donnan told the team he had been dismisssed . `` I 'm a little bit shocked . It 's an unsettling feeling .'' Athletic director Vince Dooley had given Donnan a vote of confidence just last month . But the players said Dooley told them that school president Michael Adams made the decision to fire Donnan . The athletic department scheduled a late afternoon to discuss the program but details were not disclosed . Dooley said last month the coach would not be fired even though the Bulldogs fell short of preseason predictions that had them winning SEC 's East . Criticism of Donnan increased a week later , after Georgia Tech beat Georgia for the third straight year , the Bulldogs ' longest losing streak in the bitter rivalry since the early 1960s . A win over Georgia Tech would have put Georgia in position for a New Year 's Day bowl game , but the loss left the No . 24 Bulldogs in the Oahu Bowl against Virginia . Phillips said players asked Dooley if Donnan could coach the team in the bowl game . If not , Phillips said , players were considering voting against accepting the bid . The 55-year-old Donnan , who came to Georgia for the 1996 season from Division I-AA Marshall , has been linked to coaching vacancies the past three years . Donnan has a career record of 103-40 , including 39-19 at Georgia . He has failed , however , against Georgia 's biggest rivals , going 6-14 against Georgia Tech , Florida , Auburn and Tennessee . `` Obviously you 're expected at the University of Georgia to beat the big rivals ,'' Phillips said . `` We do have a losing record against them .'' He rejected a five-year , $4.25-million offer from North Carolina in 1997 , and was said to be a candidate the following season at Oklahoma , where he was a former assistant . The North Carolina job is open again after Carl Torbush was fired earlier this year . Donnan is a native of Burlington , N.C. , and played at North Carolina State . APW20001205.1847.0645 NEWS STORY 2000-12-05 19:32:18 Chile-Pinochet Court Blocks Pinochet House Arrest SANTIAGO , Chile ( AP ) _ A court of appeals on Tuesday suspended Gen . Augusto Pinochet 's house arrest while it studied a judge 's explanation for indicting the former dictator on homicide and kidnapping charges . Meanwhile , angry supporters of Pinochet intensified their campaign to have Judge Juan Guzman , who issued the indictment Friday , removed from the case . The court of appeals panel voted 3-0 to suspend Guzman 's arrest order until it decides whether to uphold or repeal his indictment of the 85-year-old general . Guzman submitted his explanation Tuesday , but its contents were unknown . The court is to reconvene Wednesday or Thursday to hear arguments from lawyers on both sides . The court panel also blocked actions related to the indictment , including a prohibition on Pinochet traveling abroad . Pinochet , meanwhile , remained at his country house southwest of Santiago . Minor scuffles broke among Pinochet 's supporters and opponents outside the court building during the 90-minute session . Police separated them . Guzman indicted Pinochet , holding him responsible for the actions by the `` Caravan of Death ,'' a military party that killed 73 political prisoners shortly after the 1973 coup in which Pinochet ousted Marxist President Salvador Allende . Pinochet was charged with homicide for 55 victims whose bodies were recovered and kidnapping for 18 who remain unaccounted for . Right-wing members of congress , defense lawyers , retired army generals and other backers of Pinochet want Guzman ousted from the case , claiming he has acted in an arbitrary and irregular manner that violates Pinochet 's rights . Ambrosio Rodriguez , a key member of Pinochet 's legal team , said complaints against Guzman will be brought to the Supreme Court . Guzman 's actions are `` denigrating for the courts ,'' an association of retired army generals said . And right-wing Congressmen Ivan Moreira and Cristian Leay said Guzman should `` immediately be removed '' from the case . The increased criticism of Guzman came as the court reviewed his reasons for indicting Pinochet . The day before , amid indications of discontent in the military over the indictment , the court had given the judge a 24-hour deadline to do so . The main complaint against Guzman is that he indicted Pinochet before questioning him , as is mandated by law . The judge 's indictment said Pinochet answered two written questionnaires sent to him while he was under house arrest in London until last March . Guzman said those written questionnaires must be considered the mandatory interrogation . Pinochet 's defense rejects that argument . The defense also protested that Guzman indicted Pinochet without first permitting the mental and neurological tests he had ordered Pinochet to undergo to determine his fitness to stand trial . The judge insisted Tuesday that he has acted according to the law . `` I am at the disposition of our courts . I think I have made a very good investigation ,'' he told Associated Press Television News . The Supreme Court _ which has the authority to remove Guzman from the case _ has also asked Guzman to explain why he sent a letter of support to Clara Szczaranski , a state prosecutor who was a plaintiff against Pinochet when he was stripped of his congressional immunity . Szczaranski has been criticized by Pinochet supporters in Congress . The appeals hearings may take two or three days . The case is expected to reach the Supreme Court , since both sides have said they will appeal a negative ruling . Rodriguez , Pinochet 's lawyer , said Tuesday 's decision `` allows us to calmly prepare to state our case in court tomorrow .'' He indicated that the defense will center its arguments on the alleged `` irregular and arbitrary '' actions by Guzman . Anti- Pinochet attorney Alfonso Insunza , however , said the ruling `` in no way anticipates '' what may happen with the indictment . APW20001205.2150.0791 NEWS STORY 2000-12-05 21:51:55 Finland-Nokia Nokia Extends Annual Growth Forecast HELSINKI , Finland ( AP ) _ Nokia shares jumped nearly 16 percent Tuesday after the company extended its targets of up to 35 percent annual revenue growth into 2003 and said its share of the cellular phone market was now more than 30 percent . `` The opportunities in the future are enormous as we enter an unprecedented time when mobility , Internet , digitized media and other content can be combined and become available to almost anyone , anytime and anywhere ,'' Nokia 's Chief Executive Jorma Ollila told investors in London . Nokia 's upbeat market assessment comes amid mounting doubts over the industry 's future as technology and telecommunication shares have dropped sharply in recent weeks . Shares of Nokia rose $7 , or almost 16 percent , to close at $51.38 Tuesday on the New York Stock Exchange . Nokia , the world 's biggest mobile phone maker , predicted earlier this year that it would have annual growth of 25 percent to 35 percent through 2002 . It said Tuesday that would likely continue another year . The company also claimed a market share of more than 30 percent and said growth in its key mobile phones business continues to outpace that of its competitors . Nokia also said the number of mobile phone users worldwide will surpass 1 billion during the first half of 2002 rather than by the end 2002 , as it had earlier predicted . On Tuesday , the company also revealed that a deal announced last week with Redmond , Washington -based AT&AMP;T Wireless to upgrade its network in the United States was valued at more than $1 billion over four years . Nokia said it was the biggest deal of its kind for the Finland -based company . In October , Nokia unveiled strong third quarter results , showing a 40 percent increase in net profit and a 50 percent increase in net sales . APW20001207.2118.0838 NEWS STORY 2000-12-07 21:23:39 Ancient-Bird Ancient Bird Fuels Dinosaur Debate WASHINGTON ( AP ) _ Fossil remains of a 120 million-year-old bird with unique feathers cast doubt on the theory of birds evolving from dinosaurs , some experts say , but others disagree . Two Chinese researchers report that a fossil called Protopteryx _ from a group of flying animals called Enantiornithine _ includes feathers that are `` different from those of all other known fossil and modern feathers .'' Fucheng Zhang and Zhonghe Zhou of the Chinese Academy of Sciences suggest in the journal Science that the discovery supports the idea that feathers evolved from scales , like those found in reptiles . The study was to be published Friday . Some researchers who oppose the idea that birds evolved from dinosaurs embraced the new fossil as proof that birds and dinosaurs evolved independently from a common reptilian ancestor . But others say Protopteryx adds nothing to the dino-bird debate . `` There is nothing in the skeleton of this bird that disputes the dinosaur origin of birds ,'' said Thomas R. Holtz Jr ., a University of Maryland paleobiologist and specialists on bird evolution . `` The fact that this Protopteryx has these weird flat feathers really doesn't affect that issue .'' Alan Feduccia , an evolutionary biologist at the University of North Carolina , said the Chinese study of Protopteryx `` is a hot paper ... that directly contradicts the idea that birds evolved from dinosaurs .'' The new fossil was unveiled the day after researchers announced that another ancient Chinese bird , called Microraptor zhaoianus , supported the dinosaur origin of birds . In the study , Zhang and Zhou described the feather and bone structure found in a fossil of a starling-sized bird uncovered in northern China , the site of many dinosaur fossil finds . The Chinese researchers said the feathers have some of the characteristics of modern feathers , but the structure is more primitive than feathers found on Archaeopteryx , the earliest known bird . Archaeopteryx appeared about 145 million years ago , while Protopteryx was dated as more recent , about 120 million years ago . Microraptor , which was about the size of a crow , lived about 125 million years ago . Some elements of the Protopteryx wing bone and muscle structure match those of modern birds , said Zhang and Zhou , but the wing retains a claw found on some primitive birdlike animals . In modern birds , that claw has disappeared and been replaced with a structure that adds lift to the wing . Nonetheless , Protopteryx is thought to have been a competent flier . Most dinosaur researchers believe birds evolved 150 to 180 million years ago from a dinosaur group called Theropods . Researchers cite fundamental skeleton similarities to support the theory . The evolution of feathers , however , has been less clear . Some experts believe feathers evolved specifically to support flight , while others say feathers evolved first to provide warmth or protection from water . Fossils of three theropods bear hairlike images that some say could be the early precursors to feathers . But Feduccia dismisses the theropod hair as `` dino fuzz '' and cites the Zhang and Zhou paper as proof that feathers evolved from reptilian scales and that this could mean that birds evolved independent of dinosaurs . `` Bird feathers are very closely related to scales ,'' said Feduccia . `` It is clear they evolved from elongated scales . Dino fuzz has nothing to do with feathers .'' Larry Martin , a University of Kansas paleontologist , said the Chinese researchers ' paper `` is the strongest evidence yet that bird feathers evolved for flight and that they were derived from scales .'' Holtz , however , notes that Protopteryx , with its primitive feathers , lived millions of years after Archaeopteryx , which had feathers almost identical to those of modern birds . `` This means the feathers on Protopteryx were probably an evolutionary reversal ,'' said Holtz , adding that there are many examples where such reversals occur in nature . `` This just shows that feathers are extremely adaptable structures ,'' he said . Michael Novacek , a dinosaur expert at the American Museum of Natural History in New York , says that the Zhang and Zhou study is `` ambiguous '' on the issue of dinosaurs and birds . `` The fact that you see a resemblance between scales and feathers doesn't eliminate dinosaurs as close relatives to birds ,'' said Novacek . He , too , said that evolution reversals are not rare . He said , for example , that whale ancestors lived on land and had fur , but evolution carried the huge mammals back to the sea . Holtz said the Zhang and Zhou study is important because it adds new understanding about the Enantiornithine , a bird group that dominated the latter part of the age of dinosaurs . `` The Enantiornithine got clobbered in the extinction event '' that killed off the dinosaurs about 65 million years ago , he said . This was followed by the dominance of another bird group , the Ornithurae , which later evolved into modern birds , said Holtz . ___ On the Net : Science journal : http://www.eurekalert.org Dinosaurs : http://www.micro.utexas.edu/courses/mcmurry/spring98/21/justin.html APW20001208.1126.0362 NEWS STORY 2000-12-08 11:30:15 Russia-Anthem Russian To Restore Soviet Anthem MOSCOW ( AP ) _ Russian lawmakers on Friday overwhelmingly approved the Soviet anthem as Russia 's national hymn _ a move praised by some as a gesture of reconciliation and denounced by others as a symbolic approval of the nation 's totalitarian past . The State Duma , or lower house of parliament , voted 381-51 to approve the bill , which was strongly backed by President Vladimir Putin . The move restored the old anthem 's music by composer Alexander Alexandrov but not the original text that included praise for Communist leaders Vladimir Lenin and Josef Stalin . By the same strong majority , the Duma approved legislation formally endorsing the country 's current white-red-and-blue flag as Russia 's official flag . That legislation also brings back the Soviet -era red banner as the military 's flag and retains the Czarist double-headed eagle as the state emblem . Putin has said the mixture of old Russian and Soviet symbols would mend bitter rifts in society by paying tribute to the positive heritage of both periods . He referred to opinion polls showing that most people prefer Alexandrov 's music to a melody by 19th-century composer Mikhail Glinka , which has been Russia 's anthem since the 1991 Soviet collapse . Liberal politicians and many leading cultural figures have strongly opposed the reinstatement of the Soviet anthem , saying it symbolized political repression . `` We strongly protest against the Stalinist anthem , which is stained by the blood of millions of victims ,'' said Grigory Yavlinsky , the head of the liberal Yabloko faction . Yabloko and another liberal faction , the Union of Right Forces , said they might appeal Friday 's vote in the Constitutional Court . The Duma usually hears speeches by faction leaders before a vote , but this time lawmakers skipped the debate _ a move the liberals described as a procedural violation . `` For the first time , the opposition was refused the right to speak out ,'' Yavlinsky said . `` The presidential administration and Communists were afraid of our arguments against the Soviet anthem .'' Former President Boris Yeltsin has joined other critics of the move to restore the anthem . He said in an interview published Friday in the daily Komsomolskaya Pravda that the solemn music recalls Communist Party congresses , not Soviet sports victories and achievements in space , as Putin had said . `` I 'm categorically against the restoration of the Soviet anthem ,'' Yeltsin said . Communists and other hard-liners had opposed the tricolor flag and the eagle as a vestige of the Czars , forcing Yeltsin to approve them by decree . But they agreed to abandon their criticism and back formal approval for the symbols in response to the reintroduction of the Soviet anthem . No conclusive version of new lyrics for the old music has been approved yet . The Duma asked Putin to set up a panel to consider the text and submit the final version for its approval . During Friday 's debate , Duma speaker Gennady Seleznyov said officials had received an anonymous telephone call saying a bomb had been planted in the building . Lawmakers ignored it and continued their session as police officers with sniffer dogs searched the premises . APW20001209.0634.0301 NEWS STORY 2000-12-09 06:42:09 Recount-Bush Bush Retreating After Court Setback AUSTIN , Texas ( AP ) _ Gov . George W. Bush is retreating to the solitude of his central Texas ranch after a stunning court setback in the long drawn-out presidential contest . The Texas governor and Republican nominee was described as in good spirits , but disappointed after Friday 's Florida Supreme Court order for an immediate recount of so-called undervotes missed in machine tallies . The dispirited Bush camp had hoped for a victory celebration in the streets of Austin this weekend . Instead , Bush and his wife , Laura , were headed back Saturday to the isolated 1,600-acre ranch about a two-hour drive north of here , where he has spent much of his time since the election . No public appearances were planned throughout the weekend . And , unlike other recent Bush visits to the ranch near Waco , Texas , no plans were made to bring reporters out for picture-taking sessions with prominent visitors or would-be members of a Bush Cabinet . `` We 've run out of reaction ,'' Bush spokesman Dan Bartlett said Friday night . `` Obviously , everybody was disappointed .'' Juleanna Glover Weiss , a spokeswoman in the Bush - Cheney transition headquarters in McLean , Va ., called the development `` just another dip in the roller coaster .'' But Bush officials did little to hide their obvious dismay with Friday 's 4-3 state Supreme Court ruling favoring Democrat Al Gore . Republicans were briefly buoyed by a pair of court rulings on absentee ballots that went in Bush 's favor in Seminole and Martin counties earlier Friday . But the upbeat mood quickly evaporated with the state Supreme Court ruling . `` Obviously , ( Bush ) was a good bit happier after the Seminole and Martin decisions than he was after this 4-3 decision ,'' said James A. Baker III , the head of Bush 's legal team and a former secretary of state . Still , he added , `` Governor Bush is in fine spirits and quite prepared to see this through to its ultimate conclusion because he feels very confidently that he has won this election and won it more than one time .'' Bush went on with a party at the governor 's mansion for his staff and his Secret Service detail Friday evening . Even before the court setback , Bush was more muted Friday than he has been in days , perhaps reflecting an understanding gleaned from his lawyers that the Florida high court could rule against him . `` We 're prepared , if need be , to take our case back to the ( U.S .) Supreme Court ,'' he told reporters . As to whether the trailing candidate should concede the race rather than prolong the process in the courts , Bush said , `` Each candidate is going to have to decide to make the decision that 's best for the country .'' As news of Friday 's ruling spread , pro- Gore demonstrators began to congregate outside the governor 's mansion . They were then matched by supporters of Bush and running mate Dick Cheney . Car horns blared and at times competing demonstrators shouted at one another . By nightfall , however , the demonstrators had all left and the mansion was quiet _ even though the party was going on inside . APW20001209.0634.0303 NEWS STORY 2000-12-09 06:44:38 EU-Summit France 's Chirac Fights EU Deadlock NICE , France ( AP ) _ One after another , late into the night , the leaders of Europe filed into a small , windowless room for private chats with French President Jacques Chirac that could determine the future of the European Union . Chirac was fighting to break a deadlock over how to modify the 15- nation EU 's decision-making mechanisms to cope with its planned expansion into the former communist East . On Saturday morning , after he 'd finished seeing the other 14 EU leaders , Chirac was scheduled to send them a draft Treaty of Nice _ a blueprint for running the bloc of 370 million people as it prepares for a dozen new members . His efforts , which took place in the midst of a crucial three-day EU summit in this French resort city , were a step toward the agreement that everyone gathered here says is necessary _ but nobody thinks will be easy . `` Everybody has to be prepared to take a step toward compromise ,'' Chirac told a news conference as he prepared to host the talks . Failure to find an agreement before the summit ends could push the EU into a prolonged crisis and dash the hopes of Poles , Hungarians , Czechs and others seeking to join the EU over the next two or three years . Painfully aware of the high stakes , leaders were hopeful an agreement could be reached as the summit , which started Thursday , drags on through the weekend . `` I don't want to speculate about failure ,'' Swedish Prime Minister Goeran Persson told reporters after his 15-minute meeting with Chirac . `` I don't think that is in the cards . All political logic tells me we'll finally find an agreement over how to distribute power .'' Chirac has a particular problem . As the EU 's current chairman , he 's supposed to broker a compromise . But he 's also defending France 's corner in a fight with Germany _ the summit 's knottiest problem . Although every nation is fighting to maximize its voice in the reformed union , other leaders believe summit success hinges on resolving the wrangle between Paris and Berlin over who controls the most votes in the EU 's policy-setting councils . Germany , its population swollen to 82 million by reunification , wants its voting weight increased to reflect its position as the EU 's biggest nation . France says that strikes at the heart of postwar Franco - German parity , which formed the foundation of Europe 's drive for unity . Paris defends a status quo that gives Germany equal voting rights with France , Italy and Britain even though they each have fewer than 60 million citizens . Meanwhile , smaller nations are struggling to avoid having their rights overwhelmed by the maneuvers of the `` big four .'' Although no early breakthrough was in sight , leaders hinted the group was edging toward a deal . `` I came away reasonably optimistic ,'' French Prime Minister Lionel Jospin said after one round of talks Thursday . `` We can't say there was movement , but maybe there was a willingness to move .'' Suggestions of compromise appeared on the contentious issue of how many seats each nation has on the EU 's executive body , the European Commission . To prevent the Commission from becoming top-heavy after the expansion , bigger nations have agreed to give up their second seat , so all will have one each . Plans to go beyond that , to introduce a rotation where some would be temporarily without a seat , were likely to be shelved . A compromise also seemed likely on another central issue _ replacing unanimous voting with majority decisions on a number of issues , including transport and environmental protection . But unanimous decisions were expected to remain the rule on the most sensitive topics , such as taxation , immigration and social security . Despite the guarded confidence , the leaders were aware that hours _ possibly days _ of grueling negotiations were likely still ahead of them after they receive Chirac 's treaty draft with their breakfast croissants Saturday . Meanwhile , few felt like jeopardizing the negotiations by going public with the details . `` We are in clerical sessions . You know about the secret of the confessional , and so I can't comment ,'' Spanish Foreign Minister Josep Pique said . APW20001211.0507.0196 NEWS STORY 2000-12-11 05:16:27 CAR-Obit-Parkhurst Cycle World Magazine Publisher Dies COSTA MESA , Calif . ( AP ) _ Joseph Conrad Parkhurst , who founded the motorcycle magazine Cycle World in 1962 , has died . He was 74 . Parkhurst had lung cancer and died Tuesday as a result of a blood clot in his lung , his wife Claire Parkhurst told the Los Angeles Times for Sunday editions . Cycle World brought objective journalism to motorcycle periodicals by offering road tests and a more critical eye than other fan -oriented magazines , said analyst Don Brown of DJB Associates LLC of Irvine . In its first year , Cycle World became _ and remains _ the largest motorcycle magazine in the world , Brown and others said . It boasts a monthly circulation of 315,000 and its closest rival is the German magazine Das Motorrad . `` Joe was a true pioneer in our business ,'' said current Cycle World publisher Larry Little . `` It was kind of a breaking of a good old boy network of American motorcycles . Joe did not shun the Japanese makers .'' Born in Jonesboro , Ark ., on Oct . 20 , 1926 , Parkhurst moved with his family to California . He served in 1954-56 as a clerk in an Army Reserves office , then took a job as art director of Road & Track magazine in Newport Beach . He later quit to spend a year traveling in Europe and returned to become art director of Carting World , a go-cart magazine , in 1960 . While working , Parkhurst began dreaming of Cycle World . He thought that Road & Track 's consumer approach could serve motorcyclists , said Joe Rusz , a senior editor at Road & Track . Parkhurst also loved riding motorcycles and once told a friend that he `` could never find something worthwhile to read about them ,'' Little said . Parkhurst later merged with another company that owned Road & Track to become Bond/Parkhurst Publishing . He sold both magazines in the early 1970s , said his wife of 22 years . Since 1979 , he has written and published the Motorcycle Business Newsletter , a biweekly for industry insiders . In addition to his wife , Parkhurst is survived by a brother , John Parkhurst of Hemet . A memorial is planned for January . APW20001211.1441.0436 NEWS STORY 2000-12-11 15:26:41 Scotus-Northwest Flight Attendant Can Sue Over Smoke WASHINGTON ( AP ) _ The Supreme Court let a flight attendant sue Northwest Airlines on her claim that she was harmed by secondhand smoke during flights to Asia . The court , on a 6-3 vote Monday , declined to hear Northwest 's appeal that argued the lawsuit was pre-empted by the federal law that deregulated the airline industry . Voting to grant review were Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist and Justices Sandra Day O'Connor and Clarence Thomas . Writing for the three , O'Connor said the case `` presents an important issue '' that has divided federal appeals courts and should be resolved by the nation 's highest court . The case was filed by Julie Duncan of Seattle , who said she suffered lung problems and chronic infections apparently related to secondhand smoke . Northwest prohibited smoking on domestic flights in 1988 , before the ban was required by federal law , but continued to allow smoking on flights to and from Japan for another decade . The airline said it did so to compete with other airlines that let passengers smoke . Duncan 's lawsuit , which sought class-action status , said Northwest violated its duty under Washington state law to provide a safe and healthy working environment . The 1978 Airline Deregulation Act pre-empts all state lawsuits related to airline rates , routes or services . A federal judge dismissed the lawsuit , saying that allowing Duncan 's claim to proceed would amount to allowing state regulation of a `` service '' provided by Northwest on its trans- Pacific flights . But the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals reinstated Duncan 's lawsuit last April . Allowing smoking on some flights is not a `` service '' provided by an airline , the court said . The court also said the prospect of damages from a personal-injury lawsuit would not affect an airline 's services enough to warrant pre-emption under the federal law . In the appeal acted on Monday , Northwest 's lawyers said airlines should not have to `` tailor their operations '' to comply with laws in various states . Duncan 's lawyers said the deregulation law was not intended to protect airlines from personal-injury claims . The case is Northwest Airlines v . Duncan , 00-404 . ___ On the Net : For the appeals court ruling in Duncan v . Northwest Airlines : http://www.uscourts.gov/links.html and click on 9th Circuit . APW20001211.2132.0815 NEWS STORY 2000-12-11 21:55:42 SOC-MLS-Lawsuit Major League Soccer Wins Lawsuit BOSTON ( AP ) _ Major League Soccer scored a victory over its players on Monday when a jury decided that the league was not a monopoly with the power to depress salaries . The class-action antitrust lawsuit filed in federal court claimed that MLS owners conspired with the U.S. Soccer Federation to eliminate competition for Division I soccer players . But after about a day of deliberation , the jury found that plenty of competition existed _ in Europe , in Latin America , and in minor and indoor leagues in the United States . `` We couldn't have told the players , 'Take it or leave it ,' because they had other places to go ,'' said Michael Cardozo , an attorney for MLS . The players will appeal the verdict , attorney Jeffrey Kessler said . Jurors told The Associated Press that they were impressed by the testimony of former deputy commissioner Sunil Gulati , who compiled a chart noting that MLS players had come from and gone to professional leagues in dozens of other countries . But the players argued that only 20 percent of MLS players had international options . Others were turned away because of visa and work-permit requirements or other limits on the use of foreign players . `` All we want is an agreement between labor and management ,'' said Garth Lagerway , the Miami Fusion goalkeeper and player representative . `` All that 's happened in the history of this league is the league telling us what we had to accept .'' Because the jury sided with the owners that the market was not limited to Division I soccer in this country , it did not have to answer any of the other questions . At the heart of the players ' case was the claim that , if not for the exclusion of other Division I leagues , there could be a thriving marketplace for soccer leagues and players in this country . However , the jury found that two topflight leagues would oversaturate the limited American interest in the sport . `` It was our feeling that if these two leagues had been in place , both would be bankrupt ,'' juror Tina Hart told the AP . `` There isn't enough demand for it .'' MLS owners claimed that they have lost $250 million since 1995 , even without competition . A decision against them would have been tripled under antitrust law and then applied to other players in the class , which could have put it into the tens of millions of dollars . The case had been closely watched at the start when players claimed that the `` single-entity '' structure of the league _ a centralized ownership mimicked by every new sports league formed since MLS _ was itself an antitrust violation . That claim was thrown out before trial . Kessler said it would be appealed , along with this jury 's verdict . But Monday 's decision is a setback for the players in that case as well . The league has argued that the jury 's definition of the market will apply to _ and undercut _ that case as well . APW20001212.1729.0582 NEWS STORY 2000-12-12 17:34:09 Wall-Street Dow Gains 93 ; Nasdaq Drops 40 NEW YORK ( AP ) _ Stocks were mixed Tuesday as anxiety about high-tech earnings and the election deadlock resurfaced on Wall Street . Technology issues rose smartly late last week after Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan said he was inclined to lower interest rates early next year . High-techs also advanced Monday , but investors are too worried about poor earnings to extend the rally , analysts said . `` There was some initial euphoria in the wake of Alan Greenspan 's clear message that he is poised to rescue the economy if it heads toward recession , but there are still some concerns especially in the chip sector that earnings will be disappointing ,'' said Alan Skrainka , chief market strategist for A.G. Edwards & Sons Inc . in St. Louis . `` So we are seeing a shift to some of the defensive , more stable stocks .'' The Dow Jones industrial average rose 92.91 to 10,818.71 . Broader indicators were lower . The Nasdaq composite index was down 39.82 at 2,975.28 , and the Standard & Poor 's 500 index was off 2.84 at 1,377.36 . `` Some people feel that 3,000 in the Nasdaq is an important level . So , we are seeing some profit taking ,'' Skrainka said . `` Clearly , the short-term is dominated by worries about the political situation and fourth-quarter earnings .'' Investors awaited a decision expected later in the day from the U.S . Supreme Court on whether to allow Florida to recount its election ballots to determine whether Vice President Al Gore or Texas Gov . George W. Bush will be president . Wall Street considered the protracted political uncertainty as a reason to sell tech stocks and retreat to blue chips . Chip makers were mixed after Advanced Micro Devices warned Monday that weak demand for personal computers would lead to lower-than-expected fourth-quarter earnings . AMD inched up 25 cents to trade at $17.56 , but Intel , which issued a similar warning last week , tumbled $2.38 to $35.06 . Microsoft slid $2.19 to $55.88 . Network equipment maker Cisco fell 50 cents to $54.31 . The Dow saw big price changes and heavy trading in two of its most well-known components . General Electric was significantly lower despite an upbeat outlook delivered Monday by CEO Jack Welch to analysts . GE , which also announced it will take a $4 billion charge for its acquisition of Honeywell , fell $1.38 to $53.94 . But General Motors rose $2.13 to $53.69 after the automaker announced it will phase out its Oldsmobile division . So-called defensive buys traded higher . Banker J.P. Morgan soared $3.19 to $159.94 , and drug maker Johnson & Johnson rose $1.25 to $96.88 . Energy stocks were mixed after industry economists told the Senate that natural gas and heating-oil prices will be high this winter . They cited soaring demand , low inventories and forecast for colder weather . Enron was down 81 cents at $75.69 , but Exxon Mobile was up 63 cents at $86.38 . The Russell 2000 index was down 3.84 at 483.39 . Declining issues outnumbered advancers 4 to 3 on the New York Stock Exchange where volume was 493.10 million shares , down from Monday's 522.67 million . ___ On the Net : New York Stock Exchange : http://www.nyse.com Nasdaq Stock Market : http://www.nasdaq.com APW20001216.2012.0590 NEWS STORY 2000-12-16 21:08:48 Alabama-Tornadoes Alabama Tornadoes Wreak Havoc TUSCALOOSA , Ala . ( AP ) _ Tornadoes destroyed homes and overturned cars in several areas of Alabama on Saturday and more than two dozen people were reported injured . At least one person was killed in Tuscaloosa , said Debbie Watson , spokeswoman for the Tuscaloosa County Emergency Management Agency . Twisters struck just before noon in the state 's rural southeastern corner , then hit Tuscaloosa and the northern part of the state as lines of thunderstorms swept across the South . The Tuscaloosa twister struck a subdivision , Watson said . The National Weather Service said there was extensive damage . Twenty-one people were injured , according to broadcast reports . Another tornado hit Geneva , near the Alabama - Florida line , said Mayor Warren Beck . He said vehicles were overturned and homes were destroyed . Geneva County Emergency Management Agency director Margaret Mixon said eight people were injured , two of them severely . That tornado also damaged about a half-dozen homes in Dale County , destroying a peanut mill at Abbeville and damaging a textile mill , authorities said . Dale County Commissioner Buddy Stapleton said he counted about a half-dozen homes hit near Newton . In northern Alabama , about eight homes were reported destroyed and trees and power lines were toppled in Limestone County . APW20001218.0541.0172 NEWS STORY 2000-12-18 05:41:23 High-Court Court Skid Stamps Docket of History WASHINGTON ( AP ) _ The Supreme Court 's postelection skid into the once-shunned `` political thicket '' leaves an indelible stamp on the docket of history and a case that citizens are likely to debate as long as the republic chooses presidents . Unlike many of the court 's decisions shaping the country 's response to difficult issues from slavery to abortion , this opinion by a fractured bench raises a swarm of unanswered questions . While Bush v . Gore ended Al Gore 's quest for the White House and effectively made George W. Bush the president -elect , it left unsettled the question of who won the majority of Florida 's presidential votes . And its implications for the future of the electoral process can only be guessed at . Two hundred years ago , shoehorned into cramped quarters in this city 's new Capitol , intervening in a disputed presidential election was not a likely option for a court still finding its constitutional role . Presidents sought instead to shape the court to buttress their often-conflicting views of the course the young republic should follow . By flickering candlelight , in the last hours of his administration , President John Adams appointed members of his Federalist Party to federal judgeships , hoping they would control the much-feared `` radical '' notions of Thomas Jefferson and his political allies . `` Midnight judges ,'' the Jeffersonians scoffed . The Federalists `` retreated into the judiciary as a stronghold , the tenure of which renders it difficult to dislodge them ,'' Jefferson wrote soon after his 1801 inauguration . One of those difficult-to-dislodge judges was John Marshall , nominated by Adams to be chief justice . Three years later , in Marbury v . Madison , a case growing out of Adams ' last-minute judicial appointments , Marshall established the court 's power to `` say what the law is .'' Marshall declared the supremacy of the Constitution over any law passed by Congress . He claimed for the Supreme Court the power to declare a law unconstitutional , establishing the power that is still its ultimate weapon . The court has always moved cautiously . It would take another half-century before the justices again declared an act of Congress invalid . Moving to refashion the court to suit their own views , Jefferson 's friends in Congress impeached Justice Samuel Chase in 1804 , just months after he and his colleagues had declared that an act of Congress violated the Constitution . The attempt to weaken the court 's freedom of action collapsed when Chase was acquitted after a trial in the Senate . Other bids to curb the power of the court or to influence its decisions by appointments to its bench have been relatively commonplace . Sen . Robert LaFollette , the Wisconsin Progressive , proposed overriding the court by a two-thirds congressional majority . President Franklin D. Roosevelt sought to pack the court with new justices to change its direction . Presidential elections , including the one just ended , routinely include discussions on how a new chief executive 's nominations to fill vacant positions might change the court 's philosophical bent . Its decisions have rarely been exempt from criticism . But the court has often evolved with society , tempering its opinions accordingly . At times , however , posterity has judged it to have been on the wrong side of history . In the Dred Scott case of 1857 , the court under Chief Justice Roger B. Taney ruled that a slave had no claim to freedom just because he had lived in U.S. territories where slavery was not permitted . The court further ruled that slaves could never obtain U.S. citizenship and that Congress had no power to limit the expansion of slavery , as it had done in the Missouri Compromise . Taney 's decision further inflamed North - South divisions . Some credit it with hastening the outbreak of the Civil War . By the mid-20th century , politics represented the one major area where the court was reluctant to intervene . `` Courts ought not to enter this political thicket ,'' Justice Felix Frankfurter wrote . In 1946 , the nine justices dismissed a case involving the apportionment of congressional districts . That view would slowly change . In 1962 , the court abandoned its caution . Finding remedies to the unequal distribution of political power was indeed within its constitutional authority . Although Supreme Court justices were named to the congressionally appointed electoral commission that examined the deadlocked 1876 presidential election , it was not until Bush v . Gore that the court itself weighed the remedies in a disputed presidential election . Although the decision will be long debated , the court 's word and authority was final . `` Let there be no doubt , while I strongly disagree with the court 's decision , I accept it ,'' Gore told the nation . ___ EDITOR'S NOTE _ Lawrence L. Knutson has covered the White House , Congress and Washington 's history for more than 30 years . APW20001218.2221.0727 NEWS STORY 2000-12-18 22:42:15 Weatherpage-Weather Snow Spreads Throughout the Midwest The latest in a series of storms spread fresh snow across the upper Midwest on Monday , closing schools and disrupting travel . Up to 8 inches of snow had fallen by midday at Rockwell , Iowa , and more than 4 inches had fallen on southern Minnesota . An area of low pressure area over the Midwest carried light to moderate snow across parts of Nebraska , Iowa , Minnesota , Wisconsin , northern Missouri , Illinois , Indiana , and Michigan . Schools and some businesses closed in parts of Nebraska . Snowplows were pulled off the roads in northeastern Nebraska 's Cuming County during the morning because of hazardous driving conditions and snowdrifts . Travel was discouraged in Minnesota as blowing snow cut visibility to less than half a mile and about three dozen school districts canceled classes . Wisconsin also had scattered school closings . A line of mixed precipitation trailed southward from the storm system , spreading scattered show showers and freezing rain into western sections of Kentucky and Tennessee . Farther south , scattered rain showers extended across Arkansas , Mississippi , and Louisiana and into eastern Texas . Those showers were expected to move eastward into Alabama , Georgia , and northwestern Florida during the night . Farther west , isolated snow showers were scattered over parts of Wyoming , western South Dakota , eastern Colorado , and western sections of Nebraska and Kansas . In the Northeast , a few light snow showers were scattered from Pennsylvania across upstate New York into northern New England . Elsewhere , fog formed in some western parts of Washington , and showers were expected to move into the region from the Pacific . Monday 's temperatures around the Lower 48 ranged from a morning low of 11 below zero at Phillips , Wis. , to midday readings of 77 at Oceanside , Calif ., and Brownsville , Texas . The lowest wind chill was 58 below at Jamestown , N.D . ___ On the Net : National Weather Service : http://iwin.nws.noaa.gov/iwin/graphicsversion/bigmain.html Intellicast : http://www.intellicast.com Weather Channel : http://www.weather.com APW20001219.1316.0416 NEWS STORY 2000-12-19 14:10:44 FBN-Broncos-Bar Broncos Complain About Sports Bar DENVER ( AP ) _ The Denver Broncos and the NFL want a commercial real estate agent to take down a sign advertising a site for a potential sports bar because it features the team 's name . John `` Jack'' Hanlon of Coldwell Banker American Spectrum is listing an acre of land about a mile from the Broncos ' training camp in Dove Valley . Hanlon , a longtime Broncos fan , thinks it is the perfect place for a sports bar and has put up a blue-and-orange sign reading , `` Wanted Broncos Sports Bar On This Site .'' He said that 47,000 cars drive by the site daily and `` because the players have to drive by it every day it could become a hangout for them .'' Hanlon said he never has implied that the future sports bar would be called the Broncos Bar , but his company has turned over the matter to its legal department . `` I thought it would be a good idea to have a bar that would celebrate the Broncos , emphasizing everything Broncos with pregame and postgame activities ,'' Hanlon said . `` But I couldn't put that on a 4-by-8 sign .'' He said he will do whatever his lawyer advises , but `` I don't think the Broncos own the word 'Broncos .''' NFL lawyer David Proper has given Hanlon until Dec . 26 to remove the sign . In a Nov . 28 letter , Proper states `` while we have no objection to your advertising the property as a location for a sports bar , using the Broncos ' name and colors gives the false impression that the bar is or can be affiliated with the Broncos .'' The land is valued at $650,000 and the bar could cost about $1 million to $1.2 million , Hanlon said . APW20001220.1709.0630 NEWS STORY 2000-12-20 17:44:45 Wall-Street-Stocks Big Movers in the Stock Market NEW YORK ( AP ) _ Stocks that were moving substantially or trading heavily Wednesday on the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq Stock Market . NYSE International Paper Co ., down 69 cents at $38.81 International Paper on Wednesday warned that fourth-quarter earnings will fall short of expectations . The Dow Jones industrial cited an economic slowdown , strong U.S. dollar and high energy costs . Exxon Mobil Corp ., down $1.25 at $85.94 An Alabama jury on Tuesday returned a $3.5 billion verdict against Exxon , finding the oil company defrauded the state on royalties from natural gas wells in state waters . Glaxo Wellcome PLC , up $1.06 at $55.50 , and SmithKline Beecham PLC , up 94 cents at $62.75 The drug companies passed the final regulatory hurdle to their $72 billion merger , which will create the world 's largest pharmaceutical company . Britain 's High Court on Wednesday approved their plan to begin trading shares in their combined business , GlaxoSmithKline . NASDAQ Cisco Systems , down $4.38 at $37.38 An anlayst for Merrill Lynch lowered his intermediate-term rating for Cisco to `` accumulate '' from `` buy ,'' citing concerns over a slowdown in technology capital spending . Onvia.com Inc ., down 34 cents at $1.16 Joining a long line of floundering dot-com companies , Onvia.com said Tuesday it will cut 180 jobs as it lets Firstsource Corp . take over the sale of its online goods and services . Onvia is a business-to-business marketplace for small-business buyers and sellers . Applied Micro Circuits Corp ., up 88 cents at $62.44 The maker of chips used in fiber-optic telecommunicatons will replace J.P. Morgan & Co . in the Standard & Poor 's 500 Index after the close of trading on Dec . 29 . Chase Manhattan Corp ., a Dow Jones industrial , is buying J.P. Morgan later this month . APW20001221.0431.0210 NEWS STORY 2000-12-21 05:28:52 Inaugural-Committee Bush Names Inaugural Committee WASHINGTON ( AP ) _ President -elect Bush named his nine- member inaugural committee Wednesday , stacking it with individuals who helped him raise a record $100 million for his presidential race . Fred Meyer , chairman of Victory 2000 , the joint effort between the Bush campaign and the Republican National Committee , was named chairman of the inaugural committee . Four other committee members raised at least $100,000 for Bush 's campaign : Bill DeWitt and Mercer Reynolds , co-chairs of the Ohio-based investment firm of Reynolds, DeWitt and Company ; Brad Freeman , a California investor ; and Florida developer Al Hoffman , who was finance chairman for Jeb Bush 's gubernatorial campaign and chairman of his inaugural committee . Freeman , co-chairman of the RNC gala at the Republican National Convention in Philadelphia that raised a record $10.1 million , was named finance chairman of the inaugural committee . GOP national committeewoman Julie Finley , another veteran fund-raiser , was named finance co-chairwoman . Jeanne Johnson Phillips of Texas , who has raised money for Bush and ran his 1995 gubernatorial inauguration , was named executive director of the inaugural committee . Phillips was deputy chairwoman of operations for Victory 2000 . The committee members met Wednesday with representatives of the Joint Congressional Committee on Inaugural Ceremonies to discuss plans for the Jan . 20 ceremony . Meanwhile , representatives of several progressive organizations are making their own plans for Jan . 20 : protests against Bush 's positions on such issues as free trade , overhauling the campaign finance system , the death penalty and the environment . The groups hope to infiltrate the crowd at the inauguration and hold anti- Bush signs aloft , and plan a week-long series of programs to highlight their objections to the new administration . `` Because Bush won , there 's more of an interest to protest ,'' said protest coordinator Adam Eidinger , a veteran of demonstrations at both national political conventions this summer . `` He needs to understand that more than half of the American public feels that he does not represent them .'' APW20001221.0431.0227 NEWS STORY 2000-12-21 05:47:41 Sandra-Bullock Bullock Uninjured in Plane Mishap JACKSON , Wyo. ( AP ) _ A plane carrying actress Sandra Bullock and three other people missed a runway and crashed at the Jackson Hole Airport early Wednesday . Authorities said no one was hurt . Bullock , who stars in the current `` Miss Congeniality ,'' was aboard the plane with two crew members and another person , airport manager George Larson said . He said all were uninjured . The twin-engine Hawker corporate jet , owned by RR Investments of Texas , was heavily damaged . The main nose landing gear was sheared off and both wings were extensively damaged , Larson said . The plane landed between a runway and taxiway at the airport in northwestern Wyoming about 1:30 a.m . Blizzard conditions and a high cross wind made landing more difficult than usual , authorities said . The harsh weather may have disoriented the pilot , Richard Campbell , of Fort Worth, Texas/B-GPE , causing him to mistake a set of ground lights for the center of the runway , airport officials said . The four climbed out of the wreckage and found the airport was empty . `` So they walked in here and found a custodian , and she called some other people who called the sheriff 's department ,'' Larson said . A similar accident occurred last winter when a private airplane landed in the same spot . Larson said the airport plans to install new runway lights . APW20001221.1133.0465 NEWS STORY 2000-12-21 13:35:02 Economy U.S . Economic Growth Slows Sharply WASHINGTON ( AP ) _ The U.S. economy slowed sharply to an annual growth rate of just 2.2 percent in the summer , the weakest performance in four years , the government said Thursday . The report provides further evidence that America 's boom times are definitely over . The Commerce Department said the third quarter increase in the gross domestic product _ the economy 's total output of goods and services _ was even weaker than previously believed as the trade deficit deteriorated further . A month ago , third quarter GDP was estimated to have risen by 2.4 percent . The July-September performance marked a dramatic slowdown from a sizzling 5.6 percent GDP growth rate in the April-June quarter . The sharp falloff in economic growth in the summer and mounting evidence of more recent weakness , including disappointing Christmas sales , have increased worries about whether America 's record 10-year economic expansion was in danger of toppling into a recession . APW20001224.2108.0553 NEWS STORY 2000-12-24 22:02:08 Iran-Jews Treatment of Non-Muslims Questioned TEHRAN , Iran ( AP ) _ Iran 's only Jewish legislator on Sunday criticized the treatment of non-Muslims in the country , the Islamic Republic News Agency reported . `` I call on the Muslim religious leaders and the officials of the judiciary to pay more attention to the rights of non-Muslim families as far as issues such as blood money and the verdicts of the courts are concerned ,'' said Maurice Motamed , the sole Jewish representative in Iran 's 290-seat parliament . Iran 's criminal laws award twice as much blood money _ financial compensation to a murder victim 's family _ to Muslims than to non-Muslims . Motamed , speaking during a session at the Majlis , or parliament , also criticized government recruitment policies . Iran maintains that all of its citizens , regardless of their race or religion , enjoy equal rights . Iranian Jews are allowed to practice aspects of their religion but are forbidden to teach Hebrew . There were 80,000 Jews in Iran just before the 1979 Islamic revolution , but the community has dwindled to 25,000 . It remains the largest Jewish community in the Middle East outside Israel . Iran came under intense international pressure last year after it arrested 13 Iranian Jews and later convicted 10 of spying for Israel . APW20001225.2035.0477 NEWS STORY 2000-12-25 21:42:22 AOL-Time-Warner Merger Foes Focus on AIM Service WASHINGTON ( AP ) _ All else being equal , Duane Roelands would prefer to dash off short instant text messages to co-workers and friends with the service offered by Microsoft _ the one he finds easiest to use . But for Roelands , all else is not equal : His office , clients and nearly everyone else he knows use America Online 's messaging system . Now , he does too . `` There are features that I want and I like ,'' said Roelands , a Web developer , who likens it to the battle between VHS and Beta video recorders in the 1980s . `` But the reality is if I use the better product , I get less functionality .'' For this reason , instant messaging rivals like Microsoft , AT&AMP;T and ExciteAtHome maintain their users ought to be able to send messages to anyone else , regardless of what service they happen to have . That 's not currently possible . The companies are lobbying the Federal Communications Commission to require AOL to make its product compatible with those offered by competitors as a condition of its merger with Time Warner . So far , the agency appears to favor a more tailored approach . The commission 's staff has recommended that AOL be required to make its system work with at least one other provider , but the requirement would apply only to advanced instant messaging services offered over Time Warner 's cable lines . How the agency defines advanced services is unclear . They could refer to features beyond text messaging , such as video teleconferencing , the sharing of files or messaging over interactive television . Today , consumers more commonly take advantage of the garden variety functions . They type short real-time phrases to others , allowing them to `` chat '' back-and-forth using text . Unlike e-mail , it's instantaneous and gets the recipient 's attention right away . People can communicate with international friends without the hefty phone bills . And the service has taken hold with those who have hearing or speech disabilities . Unlike the telephone , people can discreetly interact with others _ or decide not to . `` It 's communications that can be ignored ,'' said Jonathan Sacks , a vice president at AOL , which runs the two leading messaging services _ ICQ and AIM _ with 140 million users . `` On the telephone , you can't see when somebody is near the phone . You can't see when it's convenient for them to communicate with you .'' AOL rivals say that if instant messaging is to be as ubiquitous as the phone network , it has to work the same way : People who use different providers must still be able to contact one another . They continue to lobby the FCC , hoping to see the conditions broadened before the agency issues its final decision . `` It 's really important to get this right before innovation is squashed because one company has a monopoly ,'' said Jon Englund , vice president of government affairs for ExciteAtHome . `` It's absolutely critical that Internet uses have real choice among competing platforms .'' AOL has said it wants to work toward interoperability , but first needs to protect consumer privacy and security to prevent the kinds of problems that have emerged in the e-mail world , like spamming _ unwanted junk messages . Company officials disagreed that AOL 's market share was keeping out competitors . AOL executives cited a recent study by Media Metrix indicating that the messaging services offered by Yahoo! and Microsoft are the fastest growing in the United States . Why all the fuss over a free product that anyone , even those who don't subscribe to AOL , can use ? Some pointed to the recent demise of two instant messaging competitors _ iCAST and Tribal Voice _ as evidence that AOL 's dominance could prevent choices in the market . Another concern is that AOL could use its substantial customer base to tack on new advanced services and then charge for them . Rivals said the ability of various services to work together will become increasingly important in the future . For example , as instant messaging migrates to cell phones or hand-held computer organizers , consumers won't want to have to install multiple services on these devices , said Brian Park , senior product for Yahoo! Communications Services . `` You can have the best service and the coolest features , but nobody is going to use it if it doesn't communicate with other services ,'' Park said . ___ On the Net : America Online corporate site : http://corp.aol.com IMUnified, coalition formed by AT&AMP;T , ExciteAtHome , Microsoft : http://www.imunified.org/ NYT20001001.2157.0225 NEWS STORY 2000-10-01 22:44:00 A8839 &Cx1f ; taf-z u k BC-EDIT-SCOTUS-NYT &LR ; 10-01 0557 BC-EDIT-SCOTUS-NYT EDITORIAL : ISSUES FOR THE SUPREME COURT &UR ; c.2000 N.Y . Times News Service &QC ; &LR ; &QL ; The New York Times said in an editorial on Monday , Oct . 2 : The new Supreme Court term , which opens today , has no high-profile cases to match last session 's tangles over partial birth abortion , gays in the Boy Scouts and organized prayer at high school football games . But even shorn of the Microsoft case , this season will not lack for suspense or importance . The court 's docket includes cases that , depending on their outcome , could significantly bolster or weaken environmental protection , federal civil rights , freedom of the press and the Fourth Amendment 's shield against unreasonable searches and seizures . Once again , a prime battleground will be the constitutional allocation of power _ between the federal government and the states , and between Congress and federal regulatory agencies . Last term , the court lengthened its string of regrettable 5-to-4 decisions trimming federal authority by striking down portions of the Violence Against Women Act and the federal law barring age discrimination in employment . A case to be heard next week tests whether the majority 's constricted view of federal power extends to shielding states from lawsuits brought by their public employees under the Americans With Disabilities Act . In another big federalism case with implications for the environment , the court will consider whether Congress exceeded its Commerce Clause powers by allowing regulation of small , intrastate wetlands to protect the habitats of migratory birds . This term the court will also weigh a challenge to the authority of the Environmental Protection Agency to set national standards for air pollutants . The justices should resist this invitation to disrupt the modern regulatory system by overturning Congress ' broad delegation of authority to the EPA or otherwise diluting the agency 's power to set `` uncompromising '' health-based standards . On Tuesday , the court begins the term 's review of Fourth Amendment principles with an Indianapolis case involving the use of police checkpoints and drug-sniffing dogs to check motorists for illicit drugs . The court should view these law enforcement stops as an overly aggressive leap from the sobriety checkpoints it has previously approved to remove an immediate safety hazard . Then , on Wednesday , the court will consider the outrageous privacy violation committed against pregnant women who were selectively tested for cocaine use while seeking prenatal care at a South Carolina hospital , and subsequently arrested or threatened with arrest . Amicus briefs from leading medical and health groups caution that such punitive policies will drive women away from critically needed prenatal care and treatment programs . Later this term , the court will confront a major media case . At issue is the liability of a Pennsylvania radio station under the federal wiretap statute for broadcasting an illegally taped cell phone conversation between two union officials . No one accuses the station of involvement in the taping , which was done by an anonymous third party . Should the court override the station 's First Amendment privilege here , the chilling impact on newsgathering cannot be overstated , much as The Times intends to argue in an amicus brief . NYT-10-01-00 2244EDT NYT20001002.1754.0290 NEWS STORY 2000-10-02 18:00:00 A9953 &Cx1f ; sci-z u a BC-SCI-JELLYFISH-GULF-AR 10-02 0724 BC-SCI-JELLYFISH-GULF-ART-NYT JELLYFISH DAMAGE IN GULF IS RAISING CONCERN FOR AQUATIC LIFE ( ART ADV : Photo NYT1 is being sent to NYT photo clients . Nonsubscribers can purchase one-time rights by calling 888-603-1036 or 888-346-9867 .) &QL ; &UR ; By BEN RAINES &QC ; &LR ; &QL ; &UR ; c.2000 N.Y . Times News Service &QC ; &LR ; &QL ; Swarms of jellyfish consumed so many fish eggs and larvae in the Gulf of Mexico this summer that some scientists are talking about the potential for serious future threats to commercial and recreational fisheries in the northern Gulf . The jellyfish , a native species and an invading one , appeared in prime spawning areas just as breeding season for many of the Gulf 's most important species kicked into high gear . According to the National Marine Fisheries Service , the number of jellyfish in the Gulf has been rising for at least 13 years . Scientists say the jellyfish are exploiting three major human -induced changes in the environment : thousands of oil rigs and artificial reefs established to attract game fish have greatly increased the breeding habitat for jellyfish , which need a hard surface for spawning ; nitrogen pollution from farm runoff and industrial sources feeds plankton blooms , providing extra food for jellyfish ; and commercial fishermen take great numbers of menhaden , a soft-finned , bony fish that competes with jellyfish for the plankton . Dr. Monty Graham , a researcher at the Dauphin Island Sea Lab in Alabama , worries that with all these advantages jellyfish cannot help but multiply at an astonishing rate . Making matters much worse , he said , is the advent of Phyllorhiza punctata , or Australian spotted jellyfish . The giant species , previously unreported in the Gulf , is a 25-pound bruiser of a jellyfish native to the Pacific . Some time ago the basketball-size jellyfish established themselves in the Caribbean . This summer , after apparently riding ocean currents north , they concentrated themselves in the passes between the barrier islands that separate the Mississippi Sound from the Gulf of Mexico . The Australian jellyfish have now mostly died off in the Gulf . But fishery scientists worry that they may already have affected next year 's fish populations . And scientists say the animals were spawning prodigiously , broadcasting millions of their own eggs as they ate the eggs and larvae of native species . Popular sport fish , including redfish , speckled trout , white trout and Spanish mackerel , as well as commercially important species like crabs and menhaden , spawn just outside the barrier islands . This year , their eggs and larvae had to drift with tidal currents through the jellyfish-choked passes to reach the estuaries that serve as nurseries for the baby fish . `` These things are incredibly efficient at turning the water over , cleaning it of everything in it ,'' Graham said . `` We 're finding them with 200 fish eggs in their guts .'' The newcomers had a frighteningly effective feeding pattern that involved swimming to the surface , then diving down to the bottom , scouring the water of virtually every living thing smaller than a BB pellet . After flowing through the jellyfish gantlet , scientists said , the water was almost devoid of living things . `` You really have two problems in terms of commercially important fish ,'' said Harriet M. Perry , director of the fisheries section of the Gulf Coast Research Laboratory in Mississippi . `` First the jellies are ingesting the larvae and eggs of these commercially important species , and then the fish larvae must compete with these incredibly efficient jellies for the same food source .'' Perry said she worried that the Phyllorhiza might become permanent residents . Graham said he feared that their offspring might appear in larger numbers next spring . He noted , though , that the newcomers represented a small threat compared with the monstrous herds of native moon jellyfish still swarming offshore below Alabama , Mississippi and Louisiana in a huge swath roughly 100 miles long and 30 miles wide . It is these jellyfish that worry Dr. Joanne Lyczkowski-Shultz , a larval specialist with the National Marine Fisheries Service . Lyczkowski-Shultz said the long-term picture might be bleak if the jellyfish populations continued to grow at their current pace . `` It could be totally devastating ,'' she said . NYT-10-02-00 1800EDT NYT20001002.2133.0471 NEWS STORY 2000-10-02 21:50:00 A0241 &Cx1f ; taf-z u s BC-BBN-ANDERSON-COLUMN-N 10-02 0741 BC-BBN-ANDERSON-COLUMN-NYT SPORTS COMMENTARY : BARRY BONDS ' DESPERATE OCTOBER &UR ; By DAVE ANDERSON &QC ; &LR ; &QL ; &UR ; c.2000 N.Y . Times News Service &QC ; &LR ; &QL ; If Barry Bonds is voted the Most Valuable Player in the National League this year , he will be the first major leaguer to win it four times . And with career totals of 494 homers and 471 stolen bases , Bonds , the San Francisco Giants ' left fielder , is the only player in baseball history with more than 400 in each category . But if Reggie Jackson was Mr . October for his postseason performances , Barry Bonds is Mr . 0 for October . When the Giants open their division series against the Mets in San Francisco Wednesday , Bonds will be desperate to do what he has never done in his various postseason appearances : hit for average , hit for power and help his team win . More than anyone else , he knows he has to disprove the rap that he can't hit in the big one . He 's tried to laugh it off . `` Call me Mr. July ,'' he once said . Or feel free to call him Mr . August or Mr . September . When the season ended Sunday , Bonds had batted .306 , crashed a career-high 49 home runs and driven in 106 runs . But over 23 postseason games in his career _ 20 with the Pirates nearly a decade ago in three losing National League Championship Series and three with the Giants in a 1997 division series sweep by the Florida Marlins _ Bonds has batted only .200 ( 16 for 80 ) with only one home run , only four doubles , only five runs batted in and 16 strikeouts . In those three NL Championship Series , two against the Atlanta Braves ( in which he batted .148 in 1991 and .261 in '92 ) and one against the Cincinnati Reds (.167 in '90 ), his overall average was .191 . Even with his overall .200 postseason average , Bonds has not even hit his weight , 210 . And his team , whether the Pirates or the Giants , has lost 15 of those 23 postseason games . Over a short postseason series , even the best hitters sometimes wallow through a slump as their team loses . Babe Ruth batted .118 ( two for 17 ) in the five-game 1922 World Series that the Yankees lost to the New York Giants . But over 23 postseason games , the cream is supposed to rise to the top . Bonds ' cream has only curdled . To his dismay . `` I want people to say ,'' he has often proclaimed , `` that Barry Bonds is the best baseball player there is .'' If you just assess his career regular-season stats , you can argue that he is the best baseball player there is . He was named The Sporting News player of the decade for the 1990s over Ken Griffey Jr . and Mark McGwire , joining such prestigious names as Stan Musial ('40s ), Ted Williams ('50s ), Willie Mays ('60s ), Pete Rose ('70s ) and Mike Schmidt ('80s ). In 10 years of MVP voting in the '90s , he received the most points _ 1,895 , nearly 500 more than the next highest vote- getter , Frank Thomas of the Chicago White Sox . By rule , the MVP votes must be cast in the brief interlude between the end of the regular season and the start of the playoffs . So Bonds ' postseason flops never counted against his MVP credentials . Those MVP votes were a tribute to the integrity of baseball writers who cast those votes ; few , if any , find Bonds to be endearing or charming . For that matter , few of his teammates have enjoyed his arrogant , haughty personality . `` I 'd rather lose without him ,'' one of his Pirate teammates said , requesting anonymity , `` than win with him .'' Bonds hasn't changed . Many of his Giant teammates hardly talk to him . Or want to . In the Giants ' spacious clubhouse at their new Pacific Bell Park in San Francisco , he prefers to be alone . He spreads out across four lockers . He sprawls in a recliner and watches his own television set or listens to his stereo . `` Some people accuse me of having a chip on my shoulder ,'' he once said , `` but that 's part of what makes me tick .'' But more than anyone else , Bonds knows he has not ticked in the postseason . He 's due to break out with a barrage against the Mets ; then again , the Mets ' pitchers know that , in his desperation to show that he really is the `` best player there is ,'' he might be willing to swing at pitches he might ignore during the regular season . If he does swing at those pitches , that should be to the Mets ' advantage , not his . `` If you know me ,'' Barry Bonds once said , `` I always find something that I have to prove .'' In this postseason , he has to prove that he 's much more than a .200 hitter . NYT-10-02-00 2150EDT NYT20001006.2228.0370 NEWS STORY 2000-10-06 22:45:00 A6290 &Cx1f ; taf-z u p BC-TV-DEBATE-RATINGS-NYT 10-06 0230 BC-TV-DEBATE-RATINGS-NYT CHENEY-LIEBERMAN DEBATE FARES POORLY IN RATINGS &UR ; c.2000 N.Y . Times News Service &QC ; &LR ; &QL ; The vice- presidential debate on Thursday between Sen . Joseph Lieberman and Dick Cheney was watched by at least 28.5 million people , the second-smallest audience on record for a vice- presidential debate , according to Nielsen Media Research data . The lowest-rated vice- presidential debate on record was the confrontation between Vice President Al Gore and Jack Kemp , on Oct . 9 , 1996 . It was watched by 26.6 million people . The highest-rated vice- presidential debate was the matchup between Rep . Geraldine Ferraro and Vice President George Bush , on Oct . 11 , 1984 . It was watched by 56.7 million people . Nielsen executives said it was possible that the final audience tally for Thursday 's confrontation could be slightly larger than the one released Friday . The ratings gathering process was complicated by Fox 's decision to show a baseball playoff game instead of the debate . Some of its affiliated stations showed the debate later in the evening , and Nielsen said it would not be able to count the number of people who watched those showings until early next week . The difference was not expected to be very significant . Thursday 's estimated audience included viewers who watched on ABC , CBS , NBC , MSNBC , CNN and the Fox News Channel . NYT-10-06-00 2245EDT NYT20001008.2100.0120 NEWS STORY 2000-10-08 21:13:00 A7398 &Cx1f ; taf-z u p BC-GORE-ART-515&AMP;ADD-NYT &LR ; 10-08 0816 BC-GORE-ART-515&AMP;ADD-NYT GORE CAMP PLANS TO ASSAIL BUSH'S RECORD ( ART ADV : Photo NYT12 is being sent to NYT photo clients . Nonsubscribers can purchase one-time rights by calling 888-603-1036 or 888-346-9867 .) &QL ; &UR ; By KEVIN SACK &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; &UR ; c.2000 N.Y . Times News Service &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; LONGBOAT KEY , Fla. _ As Vice President Al Gore fends off intensified attacks on his credibility , his campaign and Democratic surrogates are planning a multimedia offensive this week that assails Bush for his record in Texas and his occasional slips of the tongue , Gore aides said Sunday . The Democratic strategy calls for Gore to delegate the attacks to his aides so he can maintain his pledge to remain above the fray . Indeed , even as his aides were finalizing plans for their assault , Gore discussed his education proposals on Sunday afternoon with teachers , students and parents during a photo opportunity at his residence in Washington . He then flew to this beach resort near Sarasota for three days of preparation for Wednesday night 's debate with Bush in Winston-Salem , N.C. , the second of their three scheduled encounters . But Gore 's surrogates , including his running mate , Sen. Joseph Lieberman , and the Democratic National Committee 's national chairman , Joe Andrew , will apparently feel little such restraint . And Gore 's press secretary , Chris Lehane , made it clear in an interview that Gore aides do not feel bound by their candidate 's pledge . `` The governor will be held to presidential standards when it comes to describing his policy views ,'' Lehane said . `` Thus far , he has not met the Quayle standard .'' That was a reference to former Vice President Dan Quayle , who was renowned for his verbal slips while serving under Bush 's father . Similarly , Mark D. Fabiani , Gore 's deputy campaign manager , told CNN 's `` Late Edition '' Sunday that Bush `` was incoherent _ he was babbling '' in trying to explain his own tax-cut proposal at a Saturday campaign stop in Florida . Gore aides said the campaign had long planned to focus attention on Bush 's record in the four weeks before the Nov . 7 election . But the timing takes on additional significance because of the continuing closeness of the race after the candidates ' first debate last week and because of the Bush campaign 's efforts to label Gore as a `` serial exaggerator .'' Those words were used Sunday by Bush 's chief strategist , Karl Rove , in an interview on CNN . The new Gore offensive will include Democratic National Committee television advertisements about Bush 's record on health care and the environment . Several advertisements tailored to individual cities and states have started being broadcast in selected markets in recent days . In environmentally conscious Seattle , for instance , one commercial describes the smog in Houston and implores viewers to `` take a deep breath and imagine Seattle with Bush 's Texas -style environmental regulation .'' An advertisement being shown in Iowa compares Texas ' national standing in health care and in student test scores with Iowa 's higher rankings . In addition , Lieberman will be dispatched to Texas for a `` failed leadership tour '' this week , and Andrew will hold a news conference on the subject here on Monday . Other surrogates , including members of Congress , also will be used , said Douglas Hattaway , a Gore spokesman . ( STORY CAN END HERE _ OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS ) This is not a new role for Lieberman . He traveled to Houston in late September to attack Bush 's environmental record at a park in the shadow of an oil refinery . Lieberman provided a preview Sunday by faulting Bush 's environmental and health-care records in an interview on CNN . `` The fact is that George Bush 's record on the environment in Texas is horrible ,'' he said . `` They have most toxically polluted air in America . Houston is the dirtiest city . Kids in Houston don't know whether they can go out to play every day until the school officials or the local officials check the air quality .'' In addition to drawing attention to Bush 's record on health care and the environment , the Gore surrogates are also expected to discuss Bush 's approval of legislation permitting the carrying of concealed weapons in churches , hospitals and nursing homes , Gore aides said . The Gore campaign , according to aides , will issue regular press releases highlighting Bush 's tortured syntax and will feature recent examples on its Web site , like his disjointed description of his tax plan on Saturday . The Democratic National Committee is issuing similar releases by fax and e-mail messages , called `` Bush Lite ,'' said Jennifer Backus , a party spokeswoman . Lehane , adopting a snippet of the vulgar phrase that Bush used to describe a reporter last month , said that `` Bush has shown a consistent pattern of making major-league mistakes '' when trying to explain his policies . NYT-10-08-00 2113EDT NYT20001011.2209.0444 NEWS STORY 2000-10-11 22:19:00 A1407 &Cx1f ; taf-z u a BC-CHAPMAN-PAROLE-NYT &LR ; 10-11 0725 BC-CHAPMAN-PAROLE-NYT LENNON'S KILLER APOLOGIZED AT PAROLE HEARING , IN VAIN &UR ; By SHAILA K . DEWAN &QC ; &LR ; &QL ; &UR ; c.2000 N.Y . Times News Service &QC ; &LR ; &QL ; `` I do wish I was a big nobody again ,'' Mark David Chapman told the New York State Parole Board at a closed hearing at the Attica state prison on Oct . 3 . But his words did not sway the board , which , citing his ongoing desire for notoriety , denied Chapman 's first bid for parole since he pleaded guilty to the Dec . 8 , 1980 , murder of John Lennon . In the hearing , a transcript of which was released Wednesday , Chapman said repeatedly that he did not have the right to ask for his release . But if he were paroled , he would try to work on a farm , speak at churches and be reunited with his wife , who flies from Hawaii twice a year to visit him , he said . In a somewhat rambling apology to Lennon 's widow , Yoko Ono , Chapman , 45 , said first that he could not imagine her pain , and later that he had felt it for the first time after reading a recent Newsweek article in which she said she had been shaking uncontrollably the night of her husband 's death . `` I 've come to grips with the fact that that John Lennon was a person ,'' he said . Chapman told the board that after reading the article , he had almost skipped the hearing . But he said , `` You have a right to know what happened .'' Chapman would have been up for parole even if he had not attended , a parole board spokesman said . Ono did not attend the hearing , but had submitted a letter asking that parole be denied . Chapman , who has been criticized for seeming to revel in televised appearances after his conviction , was consistently self-deprecating throughout the 50-minute hearing . Describing an outburst early in his incarceration , he said : `` They were rough with me , which was fine . Which is probably what I needed to snap out of that .'' Asked if he would be concerned for his safety if released , Chapman , who is being held in protective custody apart from other inmates , said he believed that God `` kept the lions ' mouths shut in Daniel 's den ,'' adding , `` And I think he can do the same for me if he so chooses , and I would leave most of that up to him .'' Chapman 's pursuit of publicity occupied much of the discussion , despite his professed wish to return to the anonymity that had plagued him , as a security guard in Hawaii , enough to make him commit his notorious crime . When the board denied parole in a written statement issued shortly after the hearing , it said : `` Your most vicious and violent act was apparently fueled by your need to be acknowledged . During your parole hearing , this panel noted your continued interest in maintaining your notoriety .'' Asked what he had done to attract attention since he was incarcerated , Chapman recalled a 1987 interview with People magazine , for which he received $5,000 , according to news reports at the time . He also recalled interviews with Barbara Walters and Larry King when a book about him was published in 1992 . `` Other than that ,'' he said , `` I 've consistently , especially the last 10 years , denied any press requests .'' But when prompted , Chapman did acknowledge a three-hour interview in July with Jack Jones , a Rochester journalist who wrote the 1992 book `` Let Me Take You Down : Inside the Mind of Mark David Chapman , the Man Who Killed John Lennon '' ( Villard Books ). Jones , reached by telephone Wednesday , said that in the July interview , Chapman had told him for the first time that he wanted to be released from prison . But after the hearing last week , `` he was relieved that they made the decision that they made ,'' said Jones , who spoke to him then . The interview was conducted for the book 's newly published second edition . Chapman said that after getting permission from God , he had allowed parts of it to be released to Court TV . In the interview , parts of which were also published in The Daily Express of London , Chapman made the widely publicized remark that Lennon was a liberal and would have wanted him to be released . But at the hearing , the inmate complained that the comment had been wrongly portrayed , and that he had not meant it as an argument in favor of his parole . `` He asked me , what did I think John Lennon would do ,'' Chapman said . `` And I thought about it for a minute , and I answered honestly .'' NYT-10-11-00 2219EDT NYT20001012.1539.0165 NEWS STORY 2000-10-12 17:15:00 A2301 &Cx1f ; taf-z u f BC-FUNDS-DISCLOSURE-NYT &LR ; 10-12 0552 BC-FUNDS-DISCLOSURE-NYT MORNINGSTAR CEO SAYS SEC LAGS IN DISCLOSURE RULES FOR MUTUAL FUNDS &LR ; &QL ; &UR ; By DANNY HAKIM &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; &UR ; c.2000 N.Y . Times News Service &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; WASHINGTON _ Advocates for more frequent disclosure of what mutual funds hold in their portfolios sparred with a top Securities and Exchange Commission official Thursday at a panel sponsored by a fund shareholder advocacy group . Donald Phillips , chief executive of Morningstar Inc ., which tracks mutual funds , said that Arthur Levitt , the chairman of the SEC , had a double standard toward stockholders and mutual fund shareholders . `` He 's brilliant when he talks about stocks ,'' said Phillips , adding , `` when it turns to fund issues , he falls into patronizing platitudes about fund investing .'' Levitt and the SEC are requiring companies to disclose material information to the public at the same time that they tell analysts and institutional investors . The new measure , Regulation FD , is set to take effect later this month . But Phillips said that the SEC had not applied similar rules to the $7 trillion mutual fund industry and that the SEC should press the industry to disclose more frequently which stocks funds hold . Under current regulations , mutual funds are required to disclose their full holdings to the SEC twice a year . Phillips thinks portfolios should be disclosed monthly , 90 days after the end of each month . Paul F. Roye , the director of the SEC 's division of investment management , said he `` had to do a bit of an Al Gore '' and defend his boss ' record . `` The chairman is committed to protecting investors ,'' he said , adding that it was `` an overstatement '' to say that all investors wanted more frequent disclosure of mutual fund portfolios . `` There's a group of investors that want more information , and there 's also a group of investors who say they are inundated with information ,'' Roye said . Roye suggested that large , closely watched funds like Fidelity 's $104 billion flagship Magellan fund might have difficulty trading in and out of positions with too frequent disclosure and that funds like Fidelity 's $104 billion flagship Magellan fund might have difficulty trading in and out of positions with too frequent disclosure and that there were higher priorities like making fund prospectuses easier to read and toughening regulation of schemes to manipulate funds before they report their quarterly performance figures . Roye also said that his division would propose a rule requiring mutual funds to have 80 percent of their portfolios invested in the style , asset class or region indicated by the name of the fund , so that a European investment fund , for example , would have to be 80 percent invested in Europe . The current requirement is 65 percent . The panel discussion , whose focus was on the disclosure issue , was sponsored by Fund Democracy , a fund shareholder advocacy group founded by Mercer Bullard , a former lawyer for the SEC 's enforcement division . Phillips and Harold R. Evensky , a financial planner , repeatedly criticized the SEC 's emphasis on simplification over portfolio disclosure . `` You need to make the information available ,'' Evensky said . `` Can you imagine a corporation just issuing a simple prospectus because the financials are too complicated ?'' NYT-10-12-00 1715EDT NYT20001017.1908.0279 NEWS STORY 2000-10-17 19:56:20 A7744 &Cx1f ; taf-z u f BC-DEL-BUSINESS-TAX-NYT &LR ; 10-17 0462 BC-DEL-BUSINESS-TAX-NYT JUDGE RULES AGAINST COMPANY IN TAX SCHEME CASE &UR ; By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; &UR ; c.2000 N.Y . Times News Service &QC ; &LR ; &QL ; A federal judge in Delaware , in a decision made public on Tuesday , held that one company 's corporate tax shelter was a sham and noted that 85 other large corporations used the same deduction to avoid paying $6 billion in corporate income taxes . U.S. District Court Judge Murray Schwartz in Wilmington , Del. , ruled that Camelot Music could not deduct interest on loans it took out against life insurance on its 1,430 employees in 1990 through 1993 . Camelot Music is owned by Trans World Entertainment , which bought the company last year for $451.9 million . The decision could affect many of the other 85 companies , which the judge did not identify by name , because his ruling applies to every company organized in Delaware , whose corporate-governance laws have made it a major center for large companies to have their nominal headquarters . American Electric Power , an electric utility in Columbus , Ohio , has a case involving almost identical issues scheduled to go to trial in two weeks . Pat D. Hemlepp , a spokesman for the company , said that $240 million in taxes were at issue . Camelot took out life insurance from the Hartford Group beginning in 1990 on its 1,430 workers . The company paid for the insurance , taking a deduction for this expense , and then borrowed back the premium through a loan against the insurance policy . On its corporate income tax returns the company took $13.8 million of deductions in 1990 through 1993 tax returns for interest it paid on the loans . Schwartz said that there was no build up in the cash value of the insurance policies and because of the way the loans were structured there was no reasonable prospect that the company would profit from buying the insurance . He called the arrangement `` a factual sham '' that `` lacked objective economic substance and a subjective business purpose other than the tax benefits flowing from the interest deductions .'' The judge said the deal `` crossed the line '' on permissible deductions by such a wide margin that the Internal Revenue Service was right to impose penalties for filing in an inaccurate tax return . John Sullivan , Trans World Entertainment 's chief financial officer , said that if the decision stood it would cost the company about $8 million plus interest . `` I 'm surprised by the ruling ,'' Sullivan said , adding that he expected the company would appeal the decision . The Camelot Music and American Electric Power cases are similar to the corporate-owned life insurance policy tax shelter of Winn-Dixie Stores , a big supermarket chain , that a tax court judge demolished last year in an 81-page opinion . NYT-10-17-00 1956EDT NYT20001019.2136.0319 NEWS STORY 2000-10-19 21:50:10 A0185 &Cx1f ; taf-z u p BC-BUSH-LETTERMAN-NYT &LR ; 10-19 0410 BC-BUSH-LETTERMAN-NYT ALL JOKING ASIDE , BUSH FACES LETTERMAN &UR ; By ALISON MITCHELL &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; &UR ; c.2000 N.Y . Times News Service &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; It started like a normal night on the `` Late Show with David Letterman .'' Expecting Gov . George W. Bush as his guest , Letterman quizzed an audience member about Texas . He showed footage of the governor emerging from a black car . He brought up Bush 's open mike faux pas about a reporter . But quickly after that Letterman had a surprise for anyone who was expecting a normal night of comedy _ and from the look of it , Bush was also surprised . The host grilled the Republican presidential candidate on the death penalty , the bombing of a Navy ship in Yemen , violence in the Middle East and pollution in Texas . He hardly seemed to be joking , even though he punctured his questions with his trademark laugh . Bush did get in some good lines . Asked whether he thought he had done well in the debate , he said , `` well a lot of folks don't think I can string a sentence together so when I was able to do so , the expectations were so low that all I had to do was say , ` Hi , I 'm George W. Bush .'' But soon Letterman was bearing in on the death penalty , saying `` we make a lot of jokes about you electrocuting people in Texas '' and asking whether there was some circumstance that would change Bush 's position on capital punishment . `` Well obviously if the system were unfair , I 'd think about it '' Bush said . `` You know it 's a serious business . I hope that you 're not laughing at the expense of victims or other people who are put to death of course .'' Letterman pressed , `` Nothing you can imagine would cause a change of heart here ?'' Bush said he might change his mind if he did not think that executions saved lives . `` Or perhaps if someone were wrongly executed ?'' Letterman said . `` Well , definitely on that of course ,'' allowed the governor . Soon the two were debating Bush 's plan for oil drilling in a nature preserve in Alaska and smog in Texas . `` Don't you have bad air pollution down in Texas ,'' the host wondered . Bush said `` it 's getting better '' and noted `` we have a lot of cars .'' A taping of a `` Saturday Night Live '' to be shown the weekend before Election Day went more as planned . But there had to be several retakes because Bush , usually a chronic word mangler , could not produce the effect on command . Told to mispronounce the word `` ambivalent '' for comic effect , he kept pronouncing it correctly . NYT-10-19-00 2150EDT NYT20001020.2025.0304 NEWS STORY 2000-10-20 20:27:00 A1398 &Cx1f ; taf-z s f BC-MIDEAST-STOCKS-$ADV22 10-20 0718 BC-MIDEAST-STOCKS-$ADV22-NYT INVESTORS FEEL EFFECTS OF MIDEAST VIOLENCE ( For release Sunday , Oct . 22 ) &QL ; &UR ; By JOSEPH B . TREASTER &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; &UR ; c.2000 N.Y . Times News Service &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; In just two weeks this month , as investors worried whether the violence in the Middle East would escalate into war , the stock market in Israel fell 16 percent . In Egypt , the market dropped 20 percent . But for most American investors , many of whom buy their stocks through mutual funds , the impact was more diffuse , though still strong . While few investors own funds containing many Middle Eastern companies , partly because there are not that many around to buy , they nonetheless felt the effects of the region 's volatility . Wall Street and other global markets were concerned that the violence would translate into higher oil prices _ which it did , briefly _ and that those prices , in turn , could lead to inflation and higher interest rates . That line of thinking played a big role in the 379-point drop in the Dow Jones industrial average and the 93-point drop in the Nasdaq composite index on Oct . 12 _ the day that a Palestinian mob mauled two Israeli soldiers , Israel retaliated with rocket attacks and terrorists blew a hole in a United States warship in Yemen . Last week , Israeli and Palestinian leaders agreed to the terms of a cease-fire after clashes in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip . `` For American investors , the oil effect was much more significant than the direct effect on Middle East companies ,'' said Grace Pineda , who manages the $132 million Developing Capital Markets fund for Merrill Lynch . The fund has about 5 percent of its money in Israel and about 0.5 percent in Egypt . From late September , when the latest trouble erupted in the Middle East , through last week , the broad markets and several categories of mutual funds lost ground in the United States . In the most violent period , Oct . 5 through 12 , equity income funds were down 4.80 percent , according to Lipper Inc . Growth funds were off 7.79 percent , and growth-and-income funds 6.12 percent . Those funds generally do not contain shares of Middle Eastern companies , yet the trouble in the region was among several factors _ along with a general sell-off in technology and telecommunications stocks _ that brought down prices . Emerging-markets funds declined 7.17 percent over that period . Although many of those funds invest in Middle Eastern companies , the ripple effect of the threat to oil affected them most , analysts and fund managers said . And those funds ' investments in the region are still relatively small , usually less than 10 percent of the portfolios . `` Most of the markets in the Middle East are insignificant in terms of the amount of capital invested in them from the United States ,'' said Mark Madden , manager of the $250 million Pioneer Emerging Markets fund .'' Madden invests mainly in Mexico , Brazil and Korea . About 5 percent of his portfolio is in Israel and less than 1 percent is in Egypt . Except during such tense times in the Middle East , analysts and fund managers said , fluctuations in the United States markets , the biggest and most dynamic in the world , are more likely to influence share prices in the Middle East than vice versa . `` The first thing overseas traders want to know when they come in in the morning is , ` What did the Nasdaq and the Dow do ?''' said Howard Klein , an institutional broker specializing in emerging markets at SG Cowen Securities in New York . Traders in Israel in particular have their eyes on the Nasdaq . Their country is also home to global technology , telecommunications and pharmaceutical companies , which depend on economic currents in the United States and Europe much more than on developments in the Middle East . Shares of many Israeli companies are sold as American Depository Receipts on the Nasdaq . Only a handful of small funds concentrate on the Middle East . One of them , the $25 million American Israel Index mutual fund , is made up exclusively of Israeli companies , 16 traded on the Tel Aviv exchange and 19 on the Nasdaq . Like more broadly based mutual funds , its shares fell during the recent turmoil . But its investors remained confident . In the last few weeks , money flowing into the fund far exceeded redemptions . NYT-10-20-00 2027EDT NYT20001020.2144.0366 NEWS STORY 2000-10-20 22:01:10 A1481 &Cx1f ; taf-z s f BC-CITIGROUP-ART-$ADV22- 10-20 0353 BC-CITIGROUP-ART-$ADV22-3RD TAKE-NYT UNDATED : he added . &LR ; &HT ; As with credit insurance , internal documents from Associates suggest that employees have been pressured to encourage homeowners and other borrowers to refinance loans ; the emphasis was usually on how this would benefit the company , not on how it might help the customer . In the `` Roadmap '' memo , for example , a chart showed how the profitability of a consumer loan decreases as it ages . `` You can see how the earnings decline over time ,'' the memo said . `` Your controller can provide lists to you of aged personal loans to target for renewal .'' Another memo , sent in 1991 to `` all branch managers ,'' concerned Associates ' practice of acquiring consumer loans made by other lenders or retailers . `` The principal reason we purchase an acquisition is to convert it to a more profitable loan ,'' the memo stated . `` If we cannot convert acquisitions , we cannot continue to purchase them .'' The memo then stipulated that employees who renewed such loans , if secured by real estate , would receive a $100 bonus for each loan . Last month , in an investor conference call , Keith W. Hughes , the chief executive of Associates , who will join Citigroup as a vice chairman after the merger , cited the strong cultural similarities between the companies . But in an interview last week , Marge Magner , a Citigroup executive who previously oversaw Citigroup 's consumer finance business , stressed what she said were big differences , particularly in how the sales staff is paid . Associates bases pay on the volume of loans that employees generate , a `` count your transactions '' approach , Magner said . At Citifinancial , she said , `` we deal with the business as a whole , the whole branch and how it 's growing .'' She also emphasized that the Citifinancial computer system used by the sales staff automatically rejected products and interest rate levels that did not seem suitable for a specific customer , giving Citifinancial a measure of centralized control over lending practices . `` A lot of the compliance issues are built into the system ,'' she said . NYT-10-20-00 2201EDT NYT20001021.1123.0068 NEWS STORY 2000-10-21 11:23:00 A1772 &Cx1f ; taf-z u i BC-POPE-RETIRE-NYT &LR ; 10-21 0573 BC-POPE-RETIRE-NYT CARDINAL'S BOOK FUELS TALK THAT POPE WILL STEP DOWN &UR ; By ALESSANDRA STANLEY &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; &UR ; c.2000 N.Y . Times News Service &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; ROME _ Fueling speculation that John Paul II might retire at the end of this year , a Belgian cardinal says he believes that the frail , ailing pope could do exactly that . `` It would not surprise me if the pope were to retire after 2000 ,'' says Cardinal Godfried Danneels in a book to be published on Monday in Belgium . `` He wanted at all costs to reach the Jubilee year 2000 , but I consider him capable of retiring afterward .'' Danneels is not the first Roman Catholic Church official to broach a topic considered taboo at the Vatican , but he is the highest-ranking leader to address the question so openly . The Vatican spokesman , Joaquin Navarro-Valls , issued a terse reaction , saying `` this is the personal opinion of Cardinal Danneels that we do not confirm .'' The cardinal spoke in answer to a question in an interview included in his book , `` Frankly Speaking : Six Conversations with the Cardinal .'' Speculation that John Paul might step down if his health deteriorates to the extent that he cannot fulfill his duties has echoed around the church ever since he turned 75 , the mandatory retirement age for bishops , in 1995 . The rumors grew louder as the pope visibly weakened and this year passed his 80th birthday , the age at which cardinals become ineligible to vote in a conclave for the next pope . In January , Bishop Karl Lehmann , leader of the German Bishops Conference , unleashed a flurry of articles in the Italian press when he told a questioner on German radio that he believed that the pope would resign for the good of the church if he felt he could not fulfill his papal functions . The pope , whose speech is slurred and who shakes badly because of a neurological disorder , has nevertheless marshaled his strength to preside over this year 's Jubilee , a Holy Year of the church . Once the Holy Year ends on Jan . 6 , however , many wonder whether he might retire . The pope has not addressed the issue directly , but his few comments on the subject suggest that he is determined to serve out his full term . On his 75th birthday , he told an audience of pilgrims at St. Peter's , referring to God , `` I leave it to him to decide when and how he wants to relieve me of this service .'' The pope keeps up a full schedule , and the Vatican says he wants to make other important trips in 2001 . There is no detailed procedure for a papal resignation , and little precedent . The last pope to resign voluntarily was Celestine V in 1294 . But canon law does allow a pope to resign , saying it is valid as long as the pope does it freely . There are no explicit instructions on how the Vatican should function if a pope had a stroke or went into a coma and could not express his wishes . The Rev. Thomas J. Reese , an American Jesuit who wrote a book on Vatican procedure , `` Inside the Vatican : The Politics and Organization of the Catholic Church ,'' said , `` The real problem is if the pope can no longer govern , and is incapable of resigning .'' Some reform-minded Catholics believe that it would be healthier for the church if popes resigned when their health failed . Traditionalists reject all talk of papal resignations , fearful that such a precedent would undermine the special nature of papal authority , which Catholics believe comes directly from God . NYT-10-21-00 1123EDT NYT20001023.2203.0479 NEWS STORY 2000-10-23 22:33:00 A3907 &Cx1f ; taf-z u p BC-CAMPAIGN-ADS-NYT &LR ; 10-23 0836 BC-CAMPAIGN-ADS-NYT DEMOCRATS HAMMER AT BUSH'S TEXAS RECORD &UR ; By PETER MARKS &QC ; &LR ; &QL ; &UR ; c.2000 N.Y . Times News Service &QC ; &LR ; Intensifying their assault on Gov. George W. Bush 's job performance , national and local Democratic officials fanned out to nearly 100 cities in 20 hotly contested states Monday to introduce a new video that savages Bush 's record in Texas on matters like air quality , schools , medical care and improving living conditions for the poor . The 10-minute tape , titled `` Texans : In Their Own Words ,'' is the latest in a series of attacks by the Democrats on Bush 's five years in office . While the party appears to be counting largely on local news outlets to convey the video 's message to voters , the Democratic Party has also been running commercials in cities like Seattle , Des Moines , Iowa , and Tampa , Fla. , to attack the governor 's handling of issues of local concern . The latest spots by the Bush campaign and the Republican Party , meanwhile , take a much softer tack : In fact , two new Bush commercials that began running Monday in many swing states merely reiterate the governor 's thoughts and ideas about education , an issue he has promoted on television since the New Hampshire primary . `` Parents need tools to help them protect and nurture their families ,'' Bush says in one of the new spots . In the other , he says , `` How come the hard things don't get done ? Because they're hard . If we want to make sure no child gets left behind in America , we need the courage to do some tough things .'' The Democrats ' continuing emphasis on Bush 's home-state record is a reflection of a strategy of attack that has been tried in all recent elections against sitting or former governors who secure their party nomination for president . In the last 25 years , political analysts say , the tactic has succeeded only once , when then-Vice President George Bush famously disparaged Michael S. Dukakis ' record in Massachusetts on pollution in Boston Harbor and shortcomings in a state prison furlough program . `` Every time a governor runs , the opponent attacks his record . But three out of the last four times , the governor has won ,'' Darrell West , a political science professor at Brown University who analyzes campaign advertising , said of similar attacks faced by Jimmy Carter , Ronald Reagan and Bill Clinton . The sharp critiques issued by the Gore campaign and its supporters , West said , have placed the Democrats in an unconventional position . `` There 's been a role reversal in this election , because typically the challenger goes on attack and the incumbent stays above the fray ,'' he observed . `` And here you have Gore playing the challenger role .'' In its new video , the Democratic National Committee interviews several Texans with complaints about what they say are the Bush administration 's neglectful attitudes about their problems . One segment features the destitute hamlets , or colonias , that are home to some of the poorest Texans . `` Governor Bush has never visited a colonia , so to the extent that that shows how much of a priority it is for him , may the American public decide ,'' a former colonia resident comments . The Bush campaign took issue with that assertion , declaring in a statement that the governor had visited colonias `` three times '' while inspecting flood damage and being briefed on water and sewage problems . Some of the video 's interviewees have been seen on television this year before . Tamara Maschino , for example , a resident of the Clear Lake area of Houston , criticizes Bush for his lack of attention to pollution problems from chemical plants near her home . `` We went to Governor Bush 's office and spoke with John Howard , his top environmental aide ,'' Maschino says in the video . `` We met him for over an hour . Nothing happened .'' Maschino also appeared in an attack advertisement broadcast in the spring by the Sierra Club , in which similar accusations were leveled . Joe Andrew , national chairman of the Democratic National Committee , said the aim of the video was to personalize the policy differences between Bush and Vice President Al Gore . `` It becomes about people , not politics , when you hear the individuals ,'' said Andrew , who traveled to Maine Monday to show the video to reporters and voters at a community center in Portland and on a college campus in Bangor . `` We got 100 percent of the TV stations in Maine '' to attend the events , he added . Terry Holt , communications director for Victory 2000 , the campaign arm of the Republican National Committee , said the video was the latest in a series of Democratic efforts to get a prerecorded message out through news organizations . `` The Gore campaign has been very willing to produce television spots for the purposes of a press release ,'' he said , adding that it was a fairly economical tool . `` You can produce a spot today for $10,000 ,'' Holt said . `` During the Republican convention they unveiled four that I don't think anyone ever saw .'' NYT-10-23-00 2233EDT NYT20001024.2203.0349 NEWS STORY 2000-10-24 22:13:10 A5057 &Cx1f ; taf-z u f BC-COMPAQ-EARNINGS-NYT &LR ; 10-24 0537 BC-COMPAQ-EARNINGS-NYT COMPAQ BEATS PROFIT AND SALES FORECASTS &UR ; By BARNABY J . FEDER &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; &UR ; c.2000 N.Y . Times News Service &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; Compaq Computer reported earnings and sales that beat Wall Street 's expectations Tuesday , bolstering arguments that the company is rebounding from problems that had hurt its performance the last two years . Compaq said it netted $550 million , or 31 cents a diluted share , in the quarter ended Sept . 30 , a leap of 23 cents a share , or 288 percent , from the similar period in 1999 . About $25 million , or a penny a share , came from investment income rather than operations , but after discounting that boost , Compaq still beat the average of analysts ' projections by a penny a share . Compaq , which is based in Houston , reported worldwide revenue of $11.2 billion for the quarter , an increase of 22 percent over the previous year 's period . Compaq said that revenues would have grown 26 percent but for the strength of the dollar , which reduced the value of overseas sales compared with a year ago . `` Our results clearly demonstrate our tremendous momentum in the marketplace ,'' said Michael Capellas , chairman and chief executive . `` We 're on a bit of a roll .'' Capellas noted that the strong growth had come from every region of the world . He also expressed confidence that Compaq would meet its previous projections of 18 percent revenue growth in the current quarter and 40 percent earnings growth in 2001 . Analysts were pleased , if not completely persuaded , by the positive report . While Compaq reported strong overall growth in its server business , several observers noted that the 5 percent growth in the Unix server segment was well below the industry average . Similarly , the 9 percent growth in the data storage business was an improvement on past quarters , but below the growth rate of competitors , like EMC . Compaq is the world 's leading maker of personal computers , and its PC business was stronger than many analysts had projected . The commercial PC unit had revenues of $3.5 billion , up 28 percent from a year ago , and its operating income was $133 million , compared with a loss of $169 million a year ago . The consumer PC unit had revenue of $2.1 billion , an increase of 45 percent over the year-ago period , although a softening market and pricing pressures cut operating income 3 percent to $63 million . Perhaps the biggest continuing weakness was in Compaq 's services business . Revenues attributed to Compaq 's 40,000 consultants fell 2 percent , to $1.7 billion , and operating income dropped 16 percent , to $254 million . Capellas said that improving that group 's performance was a high priority . Over all , though , Compaq enthusiasts like Kurtis R. King , an analyst at Banc of America Securities who rates the company a `` strong buy ,'' said the quarter validated their bullishness . And even skeptics who were not advising clients to buy the stock , like Charles R. Wolf at UBS Warburg , called the quarter a good one . `` They 're turning , but the turn isn't completed yet ,'' Wolf said . The results were released after the end of trading on the New York Stock Exchange Tuesday . Compaq 's shares closed up 70 cents , to $28.40 , on the Big Board . NYT-10-24-00 2213EDT NYT20001026.2219.0407 NEWS STORY 2000-10-26 22:39:10 A7597 &Cx1f ; taf-z u e BC-SCULPTRESS-FILM-REVIE 10-26 0431 BC-SCULPTRESS-FILM-REVIEW-NYT ` THE SCULPTRESS ': THE REAL MYSTERY IS WHY ? &UR ; ( Editors : Production notes appear at end of review .) &LR ; &QL ; &UR ; By A.O . SCOTT &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; &UR ; c.2000 N.Y . Times News Service &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; Back in the pre-cable heyday of UHF you could occasionally find , in the wee hours of the morning , a bafflingly obscure , strangely arty kind of horror film , which starred nobody you recognized and which made , even through the haze of insomnia , very little sense . This murky genre survives mostly on the USA cable network and in the straight-to-video market , but with `` The Sculptress '' it surfaces _ briefly , one assumes _ in theatrical release . The movie 's relative restraint when it comes to gore , nudity and bad language makes late-night broadcast television its ideal venue , as does its air of solemn boredom . Katie Wright plays Sarah , a British art student studying in San Francisco , where she happens to live next door to a serial killer ( Jeff Fahey ) who dons outlandish costumes to stalk his victims . To make matters worse _ not so much for Sarah as for the audience _ this troubled fellow is not just your run-of-the-mill sexually frustrated , split-personality slasher but some kind of evil spirit who has , perhaps unwittingly , infiltrated his neighbor 's mind . It takes a panicky fortune teller and a kindly ( if vaguely lecherous ) sculpture professor to figure this out _ the professor draws a helpful diagram featuring words like `` incubus '' and `` demon child '' _ but they can't do much to help poor Sarah , who must also fend off the advances of an aggressive classmate , struggle with the demands of her art and , in her modest contribution to the film's doomy atmosphere , light candles in a dim , spooky church . Meanwhile , her neighbor , when he 's not reciting `` Hamlet '' in his apartment , dresses up as some kind of 19th-century German baron , complete with fake beard , walking stick and kid gloves _ the kind of get-up women in San Francisco apparently find irresistible . `` The Sculptress '' is so poorly written , badly acted and ineptly directed that it denies you even the modest pleasure of making fun of it . Since you know the identity of the killer well in advance , and since Wright 's dull pouting and slack line-reading make it impossible to care what happens to her character , the only real mystery is why this film was ever made . `` The Sculptress '' is rated R ( Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian ). It contains brief sexual scenes and some gore . PRODUCTION NOTES : ` THE SCULPTRESS ' Directed by Ian Merrick Rated R ; 96 minutes NYT-10-26-00 2239EDT NYT20001027.1622.0218 NEWS STORY 2000-10-27 16:29:10 A8589 &Cx1f ; taf-z u f BC-MICROSOFT-THEFT-NYT &LR ; 10-27 0437 BC-MICROSOFT-THEFT-NYT MICROSOFT SAYS HACKERS VIEWED SOURCE CODES &UR ; By JOHN MARKOFF and JOHN SCHWARTZ &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; &UR ; c.2000 N.Y . Times News Service &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; Computer intruders broke into Microsoft Corp. and were able to view some of the company 's source code , the basic program instructions , for a future software product , the company said Friday . But the unknown culprits , who had access to some of the company 's computers for an undetermined period , were not able to view or steal the company 's crucial source code for its Windows or Office software , a company spokesman said Friday afternoon . `` The situation appears to be narrower than originally thought ,'' said the spokesman , Mark Murray . `` The investigation shows no evidence that the intruder gained any access to our Windows or Office products .'' The company said Friday that it had contacted the FBI to help track the perpetrators . The Wall Street Journal said the break-in was discovered on Wednesday and had enabled the intruders to send information back to a computer address in Russia . `` We 've received information from Microsoft that we are evaluating at this time , and it 's premature to say anything else ,'' said Roberta Burroughs , spokeswoman for the Seattle field office of the FBI . Speaking earlier to Microsoft programmers and reporters at a seminar in Stockholm , Sweden , Steven Ballmer , the company 's chief executive , said , `` It is clear that hackers did see some of our source code ,'' Reuters and The Associated Press reported . Ballmer said the burglars had not changed any software , allaying fears that a virus might be hidden inside future releases of Microsoft products . `` I can assure you that we know that there has been no compromise of the integrity of the source code , that it has not been modified or tampered with in any way ,'' he added . Microsoft has shared some of the source code with partner companies , but in general it vigorously guards that information from outsiders . Other operating systems , which compete with Microsoft 's , are based on open source code , which allows anyone to read , and alter , the underlying code . But Microsoft has rebuffed requests to open some or all of it s operating code to the public , arguing that this would hurt it s business and curtail it s incentives to develop new products . The Wall Street Journal 's Web site reported Friday that hackers gained access with a software program called QAZ Trojan . That program could have infected one of the company 's computers , allowing the hackers to use other programs to gain access to Microsoft 's internal corporate network . NYT-10-27-00 1629EDT NYT20001027.2150.0417 NEWS STORY 2000-10-27 21:53:10 A9154 &Cx1f ; taf-z u i BC-CANADA-AIRINDIA-BOMBI 10-27 0624 BC-CANADA-AIRINDIA-BOMBING-NYT CANADA ARRESTS 2 IN 1985 BOMBING OF JET &UR ; By JAMES BROOKE &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; &UR ; c.2000 N.Y . Times News Service &QC ; &LR ; &QL ; Canadian authorities arrested two Vancouver - area men on Friday and charged them in the deaths of 329 passengers and crew members of an Air-India Boeing 747 that blew up over the Irish Sea in 1985 , en route from Canada to London . The two , Ripudan Singh Malik , 53 , and Ajaib Singh Bagri , 51 , were arrested by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police , capping what the Mounties called the longest and most expensive criminal investigation in the nation 's history . The downing of the jet is considered the deadliest act of sabotage in the history of aviation . In an eight-count indictment , the men were charged with using suitcases packed with explosives to bomb two Air-India jets on the same day , June 23 , 1985 . Air-India Flight 182 blew up in midair , killing all aboard . An hour earlier , a suitcase blew up in Narita Airport , outside Tokyo , as it was being loaded onto Air-India Flight 301 , destined for Bangkok ; it killed two baggage handlers . Animosity against Air-India dated back to 1984 , when Indian troops occupied and destroyed Sikhdom 's holy site , the Golden Temple in Amritsar . The temple had become a center for radicals seeking an independent Sikh state , an issue that polarized the Sikh diaspora around the world . Malik and Bagri , who are both Sikhs , are to appear in court on Monday . Malik , who runs a school and credit union catering to the immigrant community , has long been a suspect in the case . Bagri , a mill worker from Kamloops , British Columbia , was described Thursday in The Province in Vancouver as a key lieutenant of Talwinder Singh Parmar , a Sikh militant leader shot to death by the Indian police in 1992 . Bagri was also charged with trying to murder Tara Singh Hayer , editor of The Indo-Canadian Times , North America 's largest Punjabi newspaper , in 1998 . Hayer survived the attempt but three weeks later was shot to death in his wheelchair in his garage . `` Although arrests have been made , this does not mark the conclusion of the police investigation ,'' Constable Cate Galliford , spokeswoman for the Mounties ' Air-India task force , said at news conference on Friday afternoon . She said , `` We do anticipate future arrests , but we don't know when those will take place .'' Beverly Busson , the Mounties ' commanding officer in Vancouver , told the news conference , `` This has been a worldwide investigation with extremely challenging logistical problems .'' Canada is home to half a million people of Indian origin , most of them Sikhs . Four Sikhs serve in Parliament , mostly from the Vancouver area , where half of the nation 's Indo-Canadians live . Earlier this year , a Sikh , Ujjal Dosanjh , became premier of British Columbia and Canada 's first nonwhite provincial premier . Dosanjh , a moderate , paid a price for speaking out against Sikh extremism that gripped the Vancouver community after the Golden Temple raid . Four months before the AirIndia bombing , Dosanjh was attacked outside his law office by a man wielding an iron rod . Dosanjh suffered a broken hand and needed 80 stitches for head wounds . In recent years radicalism has ebbed . Moderates have won control of Vancouver 's largest Sikh temples , the provincial government has cut '' community development '' grants that once went to radical temples and the federal government is trying to curb Punjabi hate-radio transmissions broadcast from Washington State . As rumors of arrests circulated in Vancouver , Premier Dosanjh said charges would be a large step for Canadian justice . He said , `` I think people of British Columbia , people of Canada , would finally heave a sigh of relief .'' NYT-10-27-00 2153EDT NYT20001201.2100.0325 NEWS STORY 2000-12-01 21:00:00 A7331 &Cx1f ; tta-z u p BC-ELN-FLORIDA-CONTEST-N 12-01 0564 BC-ELN-FLORIDA-CONTEST-NYT FLORIDA JUSTICES HAND GORE TWO SETBACKS ( Eds : 2nd take will move by 9:15 p.m . ET .) &QL ; &UR ; By DAVID FIRESTONE &QC ; &LR ; &QL ; &UR ; c.2000 N.Y . Times News Service &QC ; &LR ; TALLAHASSEE , Fla . _ The Florida Supreme Court rejected an appeal Friday by Vice President Al Gore that it begin the immediate manual recount of 14,000 disputed ballots from South Florida , forcing Gore 's contest of the presidential election into a lower- court trial that begins Saturday morning . An hour later , the state 's highest court dealt another blow to supporters of Gore in Palm Beach County , refusing to order a new election that many voters said was necessary because of the confusing nature of the `` butterfly '' ballot . The day in Tallahassee was not a complete loss for the vice president 's camp , however . Judge N. Sanders Sauls of Leon County Circuit Court , who is presiding over the contest lawsuit , announced what could be a relatively brisk pace for Saturday 's trial , expressing the hope that it could be concluded in one marathon 12-hour session . If the judge should agree on Saturday to Gore 's demand that the ballots be counted , the Democratic team would not be much further behind schedule than if the Supreme Court had agreed to the appeal . Lawyers for Gov . George W. Bush have vowed to use every argument at their disposal to make certain that no ballots are counted , and that the contest lawsuit is dismissed . But they backed away Friday from some earlier plans that could have delayed the trial , including a demand that three Florida counties send 1.17 million ballots to Tallahassee , in addition to the 1.16 million ballots from Palm Beach and Miami-Dade counties that finished arriving here Friday . Instead , the Bush lawyers agreed to the proposal by Sauls that the ballots in Volusia , Broward and Pinellas counties simply be impounded as possible evidence where they are , and not be transported . Bush 's lawyers also said they would not insist that the opening of the trial deal with a series of new issues they raised in a brief on Thursday night . Those issues include whether Gore is really a candidate entitled to bring a contest lawsuit _ technically , only the electors for a candidate are on a presidential ballot _ and whether any presidential election can truly be contested under Florida law . The Bush team also agreed to call no more than 20 witnesses at the trial , not the 93 named in a witness list submitted Thursday night . Gore 's lawyers plan to call two witnesses . The willingness of the Bush team to pare down its demands may have come from the realization that Sauls was not going to allow any obvious delay tactics in the trial . The judge said he understood why Gore needed to accelerate the process ; if the trial , the vote-counting and any subsequent appeals extend beyond Dec . 12 , the Florida Legislature will send Bush 's electors to the Electoral College and the contest lawsuit will likely become moot . At a preliminary hearing Friday afternoon , Sauls made it clear he would take a no-nonsense approach to the trial . Lawyers for the various parties to the suit would not be allowed to repeat arguments already made , he said , an important consideration because there are multiple defendants in the suit : Bush ; Katherine Harris , the Florida secretary of state ; and the election boards of three counties . ( MORE ) NYT-12-01-00 2100EST NYT20001210.1714.0041 NEWS STORY 2000-12-10 17:14:10 A5602 &Cx1f ; taf-z u f BC-WEB-ECON-NYT &LR ; 12-10 0540 BC-WEB-ECON-NYT EFFICIENCIES FOUND ONLINE HELP COMPANIES BUILD PROFITS ONLINE &UR ; By CLAUDIA H . DEUTSCH &QC ; &LR ; &QL ; &UR ; c.2000 N.Y . Times News Service &QC ; &LR ; &QL ; The dot-coms may get the publicity . But John F. Welch Jr. is certain that companies like General Electric will reap the profits . `` The Internet was made for big companies ,'' said Welch , GE 's chairman and Web champion-in- chief . `` The dot-coms understand buying and selling . But the real efficiencies come in that middle part of the equation : making things .'' Long before the Web , sophisticated old-economy companies were using computer networks , and even the Internet , to communicate with suppliers , to fine-tune inventories , to streamline back-office functions . But the Web , as an easy to use interface for the Internet , has opened large swaths of uncharted territory for industrial America . Through Web-based buying consortiums , through auctions and reverse auctions and various other types of e-marketplaces , companies are saving millions of dollars in the procurement of supplies and services . The Web is changing the sell side , too . With well-designed home pages , companies can pitch their products at businesses too small to warrant a sales call and at consumers who may live hours away from the nearest store or distributor . The companies can anticipate questions and post answers before the queries are even made . They can let customers download software that helps them update their products . Diversified corporations , meanwhile , are learning to use the Web to bundle services . In the near future , for example , someone buying a refrigerator from GE Appliance 's Web site might receive an offer from GE Capital to finance the purchase . GE , with its corporate tentacles reaching into businesses as diverse as X-ray machines , mortgages and light bulbs , provides perhaps the leading example of what an old-economy company can do with new-economy tools . GE Plastics put up the company 's first Web page on Oct . 21 , 1994 ; today , each GE business sells products on the Web . And this year , GE will probably buy $6 billion of goods through the Web . `` We 'll save hundreds of millions of dollars ,'' Welch said . `` Nothing else would give you that type of quantum change .'' The Web is also letting GE help its own customers compare notes . GE posts data on its Web pages _ stripped , of course , of identification _ on how efficiently hospitals use its CAT scanners , how often airlines do routine maintenance on its engines , how well utilities use waste heat or water to generate more electricity . Customers with a password can tap into the data and use it to benchmark their own performance . GE is even using the Web to let customers test-drive software , including the programs the company has developed to help hospitals make more efficient use of some medical equipment . GE will let them download the software and use it free _ for 30 days . After that , the software self-destructs , unless the customer has paid to receive a permanent version . `` With the Web , every day you wake up and laugh at how little you knew the day before ,'' Welch said . `` It 's like peeling back an onion . Every day we uncover hundreds of millions of dollars in efficiencies .'' NYT-12-10-00 1714EST NYT20001210.1847.0092 NEWS STORY 2000-12-10 19:33:00 A5671 &Cx1f ; taf-z u p BC-ELN-MICH-TIE-NYT &LR ; 12-10 0749 BC-ELN-MICH-TIE-NYT THIS HAND COUNT ENDED IN A TIE , WITHOUT THE LAWYERS OR TV REPORTERS &LR ; &QL ; &UR ; c.2000 N.Y . Times News Service &QC ; &LR ; &QL ; FIFE LAKE , Mich . _ There are no teams of lawyers in this sleepy little hamlet . There are no television anchors standing on courthouse steps chattering endlessly about the latest twist in the election dispute . There is an election dispute , a tie vote as a matter of fact . And just as in Florida , votes have been recounted by hand , but the chief executive 's race remains unsettled . But that 's where any comparison between Florida and this former logging town 250 miles north of Detroit ends . They have counted all the votes for Fife Lake Township supervisor three times , twice on election night and once in a hand recount on Dec . 1 . The result is 297 votes each for the incumbent , Dave Stremlow , and the Republican challenger , Toni Larson . Nobody has said a word about a court challenge or another recount . And the simple solution laid out in Michigan law will be followed Monday morning up the road a few miles at the county building in Traverse City . There , Grand Traverse County Clerk Linda Coburn will hold a box with two folded slips of paper , one marked `` elected '' and one marked `` not elected .'' The candidates will draw . The slips of paper will be read . And the race will be over . `` I 'm speechless , no matter how I look at it ,'' said Larson , adding that she never thought of questioning the hand recount . `` Oh , gosh no . How many times do you need a recount ? That 's crazy .'' Coburn said ties were rare but not unheard of . She has seen one other in her 20 years on the job . The race for township supervisor was an engaging one from the beginning , since both Stremlow and Larson already sit on the township 's Board of Trustees _ Stremlow as supervisor and Larson as township clerk . `` It was interesting to watch the meetings , with her running against him and them both having to sit together ,'' said Pat Gibson , owner of Gibson's Hardware Store , who occasionally attends meetings . `` There was a little give and take .'' Fife Lake came to life in 1872 and was a thriving logging town by 1885 . Ice was harvested from the frozen lake in the winter for prerefrigeration ice boxes downstate . Now it is mostly a bedroom community for Traverse City to the north and Cadillac to the south , though some people make a living farming Christmas trees or from summer tourism . The population is between 1,800 and 1,900 , Stremlow said . Township government here mostly takes care of the volunteer fire department and ambulance service . The annual budget of about $200,000 includes a $6,500 salary for the part-time supervisor , Stremlow said . Although he admitted it was somewhat awkward to be challenged by his own clerk , Stremlow said the race was cordial and positive , with no striking campaign issues . `` I think I 've done a lot for the township ,'' said Stremlow , 70 , a retired auto worker from Flint . `` We have a new ambulance and a new fire wagon . And the kitty is a little better off than it was when I started .'' `` Both people are well liked ,'' said Gary Gilmore , 52 , as he sipped his Saturday morning coffee at the Sugar Bowl Restaurant . `` Everybody knows everybody here .'' Carl Fales , a 74-year-old retiree who voted for Larson , agreed . `` They are both good people ,'' Fales said . `` Either one will do fine .'' Although the matter is being settled quietly , there was drama on election night . The first count had Larson , a 66-year-old retired school clerk , ahead by two votes . But Larson , as clerk , was overseeing the count and she noticed that the tally did not match the number of ballots cast . A second run through the counting machine left Stremlow the winner by one vote . Larson requested a hand-recount , which was held Dec . 1 . It was there that one rejected ballot was discovered . Voters here cast ballots by making a pen or pencil mark next to the candidate of their choice . And Coburn said the rejected ballot had a slight mark next to Stremlow 's name but a clearly marked vote for Larson . The board of canvassers , made up of two Republicans and two Democrats , all agreed it was a vote for Larson , creating the tie , Coburn said . `` I didn't agree to anything , I just sat there and watched ,'' Stremlow said of the recount , though he said he never considered a legal challenge . `` Nope ,'' Stremlow said with a laugh when asked if he had consulted a lawyer . `` The job doesn't pay that much .'' NYT-12-10-00 1933EST NYT20001210.2233.0155 NEWS STORY 2000-12-10 22:38:00 A5816 &Cx1f ; taf-z u a BC-OBIT-GRESSER-NYT &LR ; 12-10 0288 BC-OBIT-GRESSER-NYT GISELA KAHN GRESSER , 94 , NATIONAL CHESS CHAMPION &UR ; ( ATTN : Mich .) &LR ; &QL ; &UR ; By EUN LEE KOH &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; &UR ; c.2000 N.Y . Times News Service &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; Gisela Kahn Gresser , a pioneer in women 's chess and a nine-time national champion , died Dec . 4 in her New York home . She was 94 . Gresser , who was born in 1906 in Detroit , taught herself to play chess using a book that a fellow passenger gave her on a cruise in 1939 . She was at the forefront of women 's chess in the United States for more than three decades . She and a handful of other women , including Sonja Graf Stevenson , Mary Bain and Mona May Karff , dominated tournament competition from the 1940s to the 1970s . Gresser entered her first chess competition in 1940 . In 1944 , she won her first U.S. Women 's Chess Championship . She went on to win the championship eight more times , and became the first woman in the United States to earn a master 's rating . In 1950 , she was also awarded an international woman master title . Throughout her career , Gresser represented the United States in several international events . She played in five Women 's Candidates tournaments and three Women 's Chess Olympiads . She was also Women's World Chess Championship challenger in 1949 and 1950 . She retired from professional chess at 82 . In 1992 she became the first woman inducted into the U.S. Chess Hall of Fame . Gresser studied classics as an undergraduate at Radcliffe College and won a fellowship for classical studies at the American School of Classical Studies in Athens , Greece . In 1927 she married William Gresser , a New York lawyer and musicologist . He died in 1992 . She is survived by two sons , Ion and Julian , and a brother , Julius Kahn Jr . NYT-12-10-00 2238EST NYT20001211.2158.0448 NEWS STORY 2000-12-11 22:35:00 A7071 &Cx1f ; taf-z u s BC-BBA-CONE-ROYALS-NYT &LR ; 12-11 0203 BC-BBA-CONE-ROYALS-NYT ROYALS OFFER CONE A ROLE AS RELIEVER c.2000 N.Y . Times News Service &QC ; &LR ; &QL ; When David Cone heard about the Mets filling out their pitching rotation Monday _ and ending their interest in signing him _ he was already considering a proposition to work as a late-inning reliever for the Kansas City Royals . Cone , the former Yankees right- hander , received a telephone call Sunday night from his former teammate George Brett , currently vice president for baseball operations with the Royals . He asked Cone if he would be interested in being a setup man or a closer for Kansas City . `` It 's intriguing ,'' Cone said . `` It got me thinking . I have to give it some thought , because I 've been a starter .'' Cone , a Kansas City native , was originally signed by the Royals and broke into the majors with the team . The Mets had little contact with Cone 's agent before they signed the pitchers Kevin Appier and Steve Trachsel on Monday . `` I wish I would've had a chance to talk to them face to face ,'' said Cone , who believes his options will become clearer after the winter meetings are over . The Boston Red Sox and Baltimore Orioles are among the other teams expressing interest in Cone . NYT-12-11-00 2235EST NYT20001212.2027.0351 NEWS STORY 2000-12-12 20:47:00 A7989 &Cx1f ; taf-z u f BC-CREDITCARD-HACKER-NYT 12-12 0264 BC-CREDITCARD-HACKER-NYT STOLEN CREDIT DATA PUT ONLINE &UR ; c.2000 N.Y . Times News Service &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; A computer intruder scooped 55,000 credit card numbers this week from Creditcards.com , a company that serves dozens of small and medium-sized merchants , and published the information on the Internet after unsuccessfully demanding payment to keep the data secret . A spokesman for the company , Laurent Jean , said Tuesday , `` We are aware of the issues and understand their severity , and also are in contact with the FBI .'' The bureau confirmed that it was investigating the incident , which was reported Tuesday by Cnet.com . A person close to the investigation said the intruder contacted the company after breaking into the site on Monday , and published the data on the Internet after a demand for money was rebuffed . According to the company 's Web site , Creditcards.com clients include the online fitness site Premier Solutions , Rock the Vote , Christian Concert Authority and Spy Gate . `` We make your business go Ka-Chingg ,'' its Web site promises , referring to its main electronic commerce product . The Creditcards.com case is one of several recent attempts to extort money from Web sites by threatening to reveal their most sensitive information . An online security expert said such attacks could largely be avoided if companies kept sensitive data on computers separate from those running their Web sites . `` Your credit card is only as secure as the Web site it 's going on ,'' said the expert , B.K. DeLong of Attrition.org , a nonprofit computer security site . NYT-12-12-00 2047EST NYT20001214.1824.0331 NEWS STORY 2000-12-14 19:04:00 A0491 &Cx1f ; taf-z u f BC-NBC-APPOINT-ART-NYT &LR ; 12-14 0620 BC-NBC-APPOINT-ART-NYT NBC PROMOTES ` TODAY ' EXECUTIVE PRODUCER TO ENTERTAINMENT DIVISION ( ART ADV : Photo NYT21 is being sent to NYT photo clients . Nonsubscribers can purchase one-time rights by calling 888-603-1036 or 888-346-9867 .) &QL ; ( EDS : Story may update ) &QL ; &UR ; By BILL CARTER &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; &UR ; c.2000 N.Y . Times News Service &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; Jeff Zucker , the longtime executive producer of NBC 's `` Today '' program , will be named Friday as the new president of NBC 's entertainment division , replacing Garth Ancier , NBC executives said . The move will have a ripple effect on two NBC divisions , forcing the network to replace Zucker at `` Today ,'' where he has led the program to its most dominant ratings position in decades , and shaking up the entertainment division , where Zucker has never worked . Zucker 's enormous success at `` Today ,'' where he has served as executive producer since 1994 , has for several years set him up for a promotion at the network , and he has frequently expressed his desire to move on from `` Today .'' On Tuesday night , Zucker said that after covering the postelection news on `` Today '' and seeing that story help establish the third hour of the program , which was only added in October , he had little left to accomplish at `` Today .'' But no job in the news division had either been available or of interest to Zucker . The move to NBC Entertainment serves as the best way for NBC to retain an executive they regard as one of the best in television . The decision abruptly ends Ancier 's leadership of NBC Entertainment after only 18 months . His tenure became extremely troubled this fall after the new lineup of NBC series stumbled badly . But the move's timing is still somewhat surprising because NBC had enough strength among its core group of hit shows to win last month 's ratings sweep competition . In addition , three series _ `` The West Wing ,'' `` Law and Order S.V.U .'' and `` Third Watch '' _ all added last fall , Ancier 's first at NBC , have since become significant hits for the network . But Ancier 's ouster had been the subject of widespread rumors in Hollywood in the last several weeks , largely because of the failure of this fall 's slate of programs . NBC has several aging hits , including `` Frasier '' and `` Friends ,'' that may not have many more years on the network , and NBC executives have said this fall that it was especially crucial the network add some new replacements . Only one NBC show , `` Ed ,'' has performed with any particular promise , although two others , `` DAG ' and `` Cursed ,'' have proved at least serviceable in time periods where they are protected by other NBC hits . But many other new NBC series this fall collapsed quickly , including two high-profile shows , `` The Michael Richards Show '' and `` Titans .'' Ancier was especially tied to the latter , having argued strenuously for it last spring before NBC selected its schedule . The show had been opposed by several other senior NBC executives , including the network president , Bob Wright , on grounds that it was tasteless . Ancier had dismissed that criticism . Ancier was also the target of some criticism from Wright last year after CBS , with `` Survivor ,'' and ABC , with `` Who Wants To Be A Millionaire ,'' turned their networks around with so-called reality programs . Wright questioned why NBC Entertainment was the only network that had not picked up programs in the reality genre . Ancier had come to NBC with seemingly ideal qualifications . He had previously worked at NBC Entertainment , then had run Fox 's programming in the first days of that network and most recently had managed programming at the WB Network , helping that network establish itself as a strong competitor for young audiences . NYT-12-14-00 1904EST NYT20001216.1450.0120 NEWS STORY 2000-12-16 15:24:00 A2255 &Cx1f ; taf-z u a BC-EXP-AMBULANCE-UNWANTE 12-16 0486 BC-EXP-AMBULANCE-UNWANTED-NYT AS HOSPITAL CROWDING GROWS , EMERGENCY CARE SUFFERS &UR ; By CAREY GOLDBERG &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; &UR ; c.2000 N.Y . Times News Service &QC ; &LR ; &QL ; BOSTON _ Michael McNamara 's ambulance took the call : an 89-year-old woman with cancer , abdominal pain , possibly a broken hip after a fall . Normally , McNamara , an emergency medical technician , would have taken her to Massachusetts General Hospital , to the doctors who care for her . But , he had to tell her , the hospital was turning down ambulances at the moment . He had told several other patients the same thing that afternoon , he said . And similar things on many other days as well . This year , Massachusetts General , considered one of the country 's best hospitals , has been `` on diversion '' for about 45 hours every week ; and on average , two of the city 's emergency rooms close to ambulances at some point every day . For years it was all but unheard of in most cities for a hospital to regularly hang out a `` No Vacancy '' sign for ambulance crews . But in recent months , in cities from Boston to San Francisco , Phoenix to Denver , it has become common , to the alarm of doctors, paramedics and patients . Now some are worrying openly that patient care is suffering because of the extra minutes spent in ambulances and because of the emergency-room crowding that causes the diversions in the first place . `` Virtually every major metropolitan area , and many rural areas , are struggling with this issue ,'' said Dr . Arthur Kellermann , chairman of emergency medicine at Emory University School of Medicine . `` They 're seeing eight or 10 or 12 hospitals in a major urban market simultaneously on EMS diversion because , say , they have no inpatient beds or critical care beds .'' The problem , Kellermann and other emergency doctors said , is not only the crowding of the emergency rooms themselves ; it is also the crowding of acute-care hospital beds in general . A survey this year of more than 60 emergency department directors by the Massachusetts College of Emergency Physicians found that more than 80 percent of them had been forced to divert ambulances and about 38 percent said they had seen `` adverse outcomes '' as a result of crowding . But some remain cautious about declaring a crisis , among them Dr . Dennis S. O'Leary , president of the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations , an agency that certifies hospital quality , who has said the system would `` muddle through '' the problem . In a telephone interview , O'Leary said that it still needed to be scientifically proved that the increased diversions were a trend and not the kind of sporadic surges that have mysteriously appeared and disappeared before . Dr . Alan Woodward , chief of emergency services at Emerson Hospital in Concord , begged to differ . `` Muddling costs lives ,'' he said . He said O'Leary `` is unaware of the problem and the magnitude to which it 's grown .'' NYT-12-16-00 1524EST NYT20001216.1856.0177 NEWS STORY 2000-12-16 18:58:00 A2361 &Cx1f ; taf-z u i BC-HAIDER-POPE-1STLD-WRI 12-16 0803 BC-HAIDER-POPE-1STLD-WRITETHRU-TRIM-NYT RIGHT-WINGER FROM AUSTRIA MEETS POPE AND FEW CHEER ( SUBS to add graf 5 on clashes w/ police : `` After Haider left the area ...'')) &QL ; &UR ; By ALESSANDRA STANLEY &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; &UR ; c.2000 N.Y . Times News Service &QC ; &LR ; &QL ; ROME _ In an encounter bracketed by political clashes and public protest , Pope John Paul II met briefly on Saturday at the Vatican with Joerg Haider , the far-right Austrian politician , who is persona non grata to many Europeans . Haider , leading a group of 250 Austrians and presenting a gift of an 80-foot Christmas tree from Carinthia , the state of which he is governor , did not receive a private audience with the pope . The Vatican spokesman , Joaquin Navarro-Valls , explained that Haider and Bishop Egon Kapellari of Carinthia spoke with the pope for a few minutes before the meeting only to exchange greetings . But Haider , who seems to relish even hostile attention , walked across St. Peter's Square to the Vatican from his nearby hotel separately from the rest of the delegation , which included his wife and two children . He was surrounded by a tense phalanx of security officers and jostling cameramen . For weeks Italian Jewish groups , World War II veterans and leftist political parties have staged protests against a meeting between the pope and Haider , arguing that a papal encounter would lend the Austrian politician legitimacy . On Saturday , about 1,000 students marched in another section of central Rome , carrying banners that read `` Haider ? No thank you .'' No demonstrations were allowed near St. Peter's , and security around the tree , which was erected in the middle of St. Peter's Square , was discreetly tightened . After Haider left the area , scores of protesters clashed with riot police , who fired tear gas to disperse the crowds . Four people were slightly injured and two were detained , the Italian news agency ANSA said . Jewish merchants in Rome announced they would turn off their lights to protest Haider 's presence in Rome . When reporters asked Haider about this action , he retorted , `` If they want to save electricity , let them .'' Inside an ornate reception room in the papal apartments , Haider , a Roman Catholic , kissed the pope 's ring and sat in the front row with other dignitaries facing the pope 's armchair . Haider wore a blue business suit , but many in his group wore traditional costumes and sang Christmas carols . The pope thanked the visitors for the tree but made no mention of such issues as racism and immigration , which have tracked Haider 's tense visit to Italy . A copy of the pope 's recently released New Year 's Day message of peace , which calls for countries to welcome immigrants and avoid intolerance , was distributed to leaders of the delegation . After the meeting , Haider told reporters that he had not discussed political issues with the pope , that John Paul II had given the group a `` warm welcome '' and that `` he seemed very happy with the gift .'' Indeed , in the past the pope has stirred controversy by meeting with former U.N . secretary -general Kurt Waldheim , whose activities in the Nazi era came under question , and Fidel Castro . ( BEGIN OPTIONAL TRIM ) When Haider arrived in Venice earlier this week , protesters on boats threw stones and fireworks along the canals . Haider 's comments criticizing Italy 's immigration policy as `` too generous '' were denounced by President Carlo Azeglio Ciampi . The comments set off an election campaign storm , as leaders of Italy 's left-wing government leveraged the dislike of Haider to cast a shadow on Italy 's own right-wing parties . The coalition of Italy 's center-right opposition includes the formerly separatist and still fiercely right-wing party , the Northern League , which , like Haider 's Freedom Party , opposes immigration . On Friday , Prime Minister Giuliano Amato denounced Haider 's comments as `` unacceptable '' and said he would complain to Chancellor Wolfgang Schuessel of Austria . Italy is not the only European country to have fierce reservations about Haider , but it has had more direct exposure . The Austrian leader has made several visits to northern Italy , where his friendship with some right-wing mayors _ and suggestions that southern Austria and parts of northern Italy should merge into a `` maxi- region '' _ have enraged Italy 's center-left government . ( END OPTIONAL TRIM ) Some people in Haider 's delegation said they were disappointed by the clamor surrounding Saturday 's visit . `` The Christmas tree has nothing to do with politics ,'' said Frank Telsnig , 22 , a teacher from Weitensfeld , as he prepared to play saxophone in the delegation 's band . `` I didn't vote for Haider , but this is not about him . It is about Christmas , and this is not the right place or the right time for these protests .'' NYT-12-16-00 1858EST NYT20001217.2241.0165 NEWS STORY 2000-12-17 23:07:10 A3113 &Cx1f ; taf-z u a BC-AIRTRAVEL-TIPS-ART-NY 12-17 0833 BC-AIRTRAVEL-TIPS-ART-NYT SOME TIPS FOR TRAVELING BY AIR &LR ; ( ART ADV : Photo _ NYT8 _ is being sent to NYT photo clients . Graphic is being sent to NYT graphics clients . Nonsubscribers can make one-time purchases by calling 888-603-1036 or 888-346-9867 .) &QL ; &UR ; By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN &QC ; &LR ; &QL ; &UR ; c.2000 N.Y . Times News Service &QC ; &LR ; &QL ; Booking Your Ticket : _ Fly nonstop . The fewer connections you make , the lower the chance that you will suffer a delay . _ Pick airports with care . If you have to connect , choose the least-congested airport possible ; some airports , like Chicago O'Hare and La Guardia in New York , experience chronic delays . Take into consideration the weather and the season ; an airport in the South might have fewer winter snowstorms but more spring and summer thunderstorms . _ Check times between connecting flights . Airlines often book tight connections and do not take responsibility if you miss yours . Assume each leg of your flight will arrive late , and book connections that allow ample time . _ Check on-time records . The Transportation Department requires major domestic airlines to make the on-time record for every flight available to consumers . You can check online at www.dot.gov/airconsumer . That site also reports each airline 's on-time record for the previous month . _ Travel on off-peak days and at off-peak times . Saturday is usually the least-traveled day of the week ; so are major holidays . Monday mornings and Friday afternoons are peak travel times for business travelers . Flights leaving earlier in the day are less likely to be delayed , because of the cascading effect that disruptions have on airline schedules . _ Use smaller airports . Instead of Los Angeles International , for example , consider flying into Burbank or John Wayne Airport in Orange County , Calif ., or use Westchester County Airport instead of JFK in New York . _ Avoid electronic tickets . Though they are convenient and more secure than an easily lost paper ticket , they are not transferable between most airlines if you need to switch carriers because of delays . _ Watch for labor disruptions . Check newspapers and Web sites like www.thenewfoundlandgroup.com to identify airlines experiencing labor strife , which often increases cancellations and delays . _ Leave a number . Make sure the airline you book with has a phone number at which you can be notified of delays or cancellations . _ Use a travel agent . A good one can be a great ally in the event of a problem _ and may save you time and money . Day of Departure : _ Be informed . Check your flight 's status before heading to the airport . Automated telephone services or airline Web sites often provide more up-to-date information than do ticket agents . The Federal Aviation Administration 's Web site , www.fly.faa.gov , has real-time information on operations at the biggest airports . _ Pack defensively . Take along a change of clothes and a toothbrush in your carry-on bag . If traveling with an infant , take 24 hours ' worth of diapers and extra formula . When possible , avoid checking luggage , in case you need to switch flights or carriers . Ship your gifts ahead . _ Educate yourself . Find out what your airline promises to do for passengers in the event of a delay . Print out a copy of the policy from the airline 's Web site , and carry it with you _ in case the airline representatives need a reminder . If a Flight Is Delayed : _ Keep your cool . Becoming angry at airline personnel is counterproductive . Sympathy for their plight will sometimes produce results . _ Don't stand in line . To get on another flight , it is often more effective to call the airline from the airport than to wait at the ticket counter . Carry a cell phone ; if delays are widespread , public telephones may be in demand . _ Check the competition . If another airline has seats to your destination , ask your airline to endorse your ticket to the other line . _ Get what you paid for . If you paid full fare or are a high-mileage frequent flier , let the airline know . Your odds of getting a seat on the next flight out will increase , or the airline might pay for your hotel , if you are delayed overnight . _ Consider driving . If the last leg of your flight is a 200-mile hop , renting a car might be a better choice than waiting out a delay . Getting Even : _ Write a letter . The airlines have pledged to respond to consumer complaints within 60 days . They almost always offer a refund , reimbursement of expenses , a discount on your next ticket _ or all three . Be sure to save the relevant paperwork . _ Make it a federal case . Send a copy of your letter to Washington . Complaints are charged against each airline in the Transportation Department 's monthly Air Travel Consumer Report and serve as a basis for rule making and enforcement action . Write to : Aviation Consumer Protection Div . ( C-75 ) Department of Transportation 400 Seventh St. S.W. Washington , DC 20590 NYT-12-17-00 2307EST NYT20001218.2144.0401 NEWS STORY 2000-12-18 22:24:00 A4670 &Cx1f ; taf-z u f BC-LVMH-DONNA-KARAN-NYT &LR ; 12-18 0851 BC-LVMH-DONNA-KARAN-NYT LVMH MAKES A TWO-PART OFFER FOR DONNA KARAN &UR ; ( ATTN .: N.Y ., Md ., France ) &LR ; &QL ; &UR ; By LESLIE KAUFMAN &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; &UR ; c.2000 N.Y . Times News Service &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; The fashion house of Donna Karan , which has long struggled to achieve financial equilibrium , has finally found a potential buyer . The giant luxury conglomerate LVMH - Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton , which has been on a sustained acquisition bid , has offered to acquire Donna Karan International for $195 million in a cash deal with the idea that it could expand the company 's revenues and beef up accessories and overseas sales . At $8.50 a share , the LVMH offer represents a premium of nearly 75 percent to the closing stock price on Friday . Still , it is significantly less than the $24 a share at which the company went public in 1996 . The final price is also less than one-third of the company 's annual revenue of $662 million , a significantly smaller multiple than European luxury fashion houses like Fendi were receiving last year . The deal is still subject to board approval , but in a related move that will surely help pave the way , LVMH purchased Gabrielle Studio , the company held by the designer and her husband , Stephan Weiss , that holds all of the Donna Karan trademarks , for $450 million . That price would be reduced by as much as $50 million if LVMH enters into an agreement to acquire DKI within one year . In a press release , LVMH said it aimed to combine Gabrielle and Donna Karan International and that it expected that Karan and her husband `` will exchange a significant portion of their DKI shares for , and purchase additional stock in , the combined entity .'' Karan , who will stay on as chief designer and creative leader for the design studio , called the decision to sell Gabrielle and possibly her namesake design studio , of which she and Weiss still own about 22 percent , as very emotional . She added , `` Yes , I am extraordinarily tied to it , but after lengthy discussions I believe with all my heart that LVMH has the expertise , resources , global scale and , most importantly , the vision , to make this the luxury goods brand that was always our dream .'' Karan also expressed satisfaction that the Paris -based LVMH , which like many European acquirers has been largely indifferent to established American design houses , was interested in purchasing hers . `` It is very flattering that they realize the value of the trademarks ,'' she said . Investors reacted enthusiastically , sending the stock up $3.63 to $8.50 . `` Ultimately , for them , acquisition is the best route to go ,'' said Harvey Robinson , an apparel analyst with the Chapman Co ., a Baltimore -based investment bank and brokerage firm . `` We think LVMH is getting a well-recognized brand with lots of cachet and we believe they will be able to maximize on the acquisition .'' Since Donna Karan International went public in 1996 , its stock has been a favorite whipping boy of Wall Street . Investors grumbled over what they saw as excessive and uncontrolled spending as Karan , who acted as chief designer as well as chief executive , spent heavily on foreign travel for a large retinue and for expensive swaths of fabric , only a tiny fraction of which were used for her collection . As expenses ballooned , sales stumbled , leaving the Donna Karan International initial public offering as one of the greatest disasters of the year . In 1997 , the company hired John D. Idol to take over as chief executive . Idol was able to increase revenue by signing copious licensing agreements and cutting some expenses . The company estimates earnings per share will be 66 cents for the fiscal year ending Dec . 31 , compared with a loss of $3.78 a share in the year he took the job . It is unclear what will happen to Idol if Donna Karan International and Gabrielle merge . Despite the apparent financial improvement , investors have continued to shun the company largely because of Karan 's separate deal with Gabrielle studio , which many felt was overly indulgent considering the company 's financial performance . That company , privately owned by Karan and Weiss , collects a royalty of 1.75 percent of the first $250 million of net sales a year , rising to 3.5 percent of sales that exceed $1.5 billion . Last year , Donna Karan International paid Karan and Weiss $25 million in a year that the design house made only $10 million in profit . If LVMH succeeds in acquiring Donna Karan International and combines it with Gabrielle , the royalty arrangement would be moot . But several industry insiders wondered whether LVMH is getting such a great deal . Karan 's name is already licensed to a wide array of products , and because it is widely distributed through midprice department stores , it lacks the exclusive appeal of names like Marc Jacobs and Michael Kors . Myron Ullman , LVMH 's managing director , counters that Karan has built a `` well-respected global brand with opportunities in accessories and to expand outside the U.S. '' Donna Karan International gets 35 percent of its revenues from overseas . Idol calls it the fastest-growing area of the company . NYT-12-18-00 2224EST NYT20001222.2029.0326 NEWS STORY 2000-12-22 20:33:00 A9224 &Cx1f ; taf-z u f BC-CI-MACKENZIE-NYT &LR ; 12-22 0544 BC-CI-MACKENZIE-NYT CANADIAN MUTUAL FUND COMPANY WITHDRAWS BID FOR LARGER RIVAL &UR ; By TIMOTHY PRITCHARD &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; &UR ; c.2000 N.Y . Times News Service &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; TORONTO _ Unwilling to fight a counterbid that so far is only speculation , C.I. Fund Management Inc . has scrapped a $2.5 billion hostile takeover attempt of a larger rival , the Mackenzie Financial Corp ., along with its hope of combining the two Toronto companies to form Canada 's largest mutual-fund empire . Although C.I. Fund 's cash-and-stock offer , made six weeks ago , was almost 40 percent higher than the price of Mackenzie shares on the Toronto Stock Exchange , Mackenzie management quickly branded the offer `` opportunistic '' and activated a poison pill , a strategy that makes a hostile bid prohibitively expensive , to give it more time to find other buyers . Mackenzie also told its 1,400 employees that anyone who was fired by a new owner would receive a year 's salary . C.I. Fund was not helped in its quest by another small fund company , AIC Ltd . of Burlington , Ontario , which owns 24.5 percent of Mackenzie 's shares . AIC agreed that the C.I. Fund offer was inadequate . And industry sources suggested that AIC would make a counterbid , perhaps with the powerful Caisse de Depot et Placement du Quebec , a $60 billion pension fund that already owns 5 percent of Mackenzie 's shares . Investors Group of Winnipeg , Manitoba , Canada 's largest mutual-fund manager , and the American Express Co . of New York were also talked about as possible bidders . As the weeks went by , however , no rival bid emerged . After extending the expiration date on its offer to 35 days from 21 , a period that brought no new developments , C.I. Fund requested a hearing before the Ontario Securities Commission earlier this week . It wanted the commission to dissolve Mackenzie 's poison pill , arguing that it interfered with the rights of Mackenzie 's shareholders . On Tuesday , the day before the hearing , AIC said publicly that it was `` evaluating '' a bid for MacKenzie along with the Caisse de Depot . It said its friendly offer would be higher and would include more than the $400 million in cash that C.I. Fund had offered . On Wednesday morning , C.I. Fund withdrew its request for the commission hearing and on Thursday night its offer died when the deadline for acceptance expired . William Holland , C.I. Fund 's chief executive , said his company withdrew because its first offer was the best it could make . Mackenzie is almost certain to be sold over the next few weeks , and AIC is the most likely buyer . But James Hunter , Mackenzie 's chief executive , said there were still several possible buyers and the process of finding the best price continued . Over the last two years , the number of fund managers in Canada has been trimmed by half a dozen takeovers . Smaller firms , squeezed by comparatively high overheads , have been the most vulnerable . But larger companies have also been put on the block as their founders and controlling shareholders near retirement age . Most of the consolidation has involved domestic companies . But the largest takeover so far was by Amvescap PLC of London , which in May paid $1.8 billion for Canada 's sixth-largest fund company , the Trimark Financial Corp . of Toronto . NYT-12-22-00 2033EST NYT20001228.1932.0266 NEWS STORY 2000-12-28 19:44:00 A3852 &Cx1f ; taf-z u i BC-HAITI-U.S.-NYT &LR ; 12-28 0497 BC-HAITI-U.S.-NYT HAITI'S PRESIDENT-ELECT PLEDGES REFORMS IN A LETTER TO CLINTON &UR ; By DAVID GONZALEZ &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; &UR ; c.2000 N.Y . Times News Service &QC ; &LR ; &QL ; MIAMI _ Seeking to mend tattered relations with his opposition and the international community , Haiti 's president-elect , Jean-Bertrand Aristide , has assured President Clinton that he is committed to a broad range of governmental and political reforms , including a runoff for 10 contested Senate seats that had caused an electoral crisis . In a letter sent to Clinton on Wednesday and made public by the White House on Thursday , Aristide also said he would include opposition members in his government , consult with them in establishing an electoral council and let the Organization of American States monitor the human rights situation . Opposition groups , which had boycotted the November election , recently vowed to set up a parallel government to press Aristide after his inauguration on Feb . 7 . The letter appears to be an attempt not only to calm the concerns of the current American administration , but also to reach out to the next one . In it , the Haitian president-elect addressed a total of eight points discussed last week with an American delegation led by a special envoy , Anthony Lake . `` I confirm my commitment to the points made therein ,'' Aristide said in the letter , `` confident that they will help strengthen the ties between our two nations where democracy and peace will flourish .'' Since 1994 , when it sent 20,000 troops to restore Aristide to power after he was toppled in a coup , the Clinton administration has sought to bolster democracy in Haiti . But more recently the United States has withheld direct aid , conditioning its resumption on free and fair elections and progress in the fight against the drug trade . Describing the letter as `` a real opening ,'' a senior Clinton administration official said : `` It 's up to the opposition and the new administration whether or not they wish to pursue it . I hope they do , because I do not see a good alternative .'' Another administration official said the talks last week involved no quid pro quo , although all sides knew that a resolution of Haiti 's political quagmire could result in the release of hundreds of millions of dollars in desperately needed aid . `` I think Aristide is aware he has got a skeptical administration coming into Washington and sees the need to mend fences and to at least commit to some significant things ,'' the official said . `` If he follows through , they are very significant .'' The biggest stumbling block to normal relations with the United States has been the controversy over the May 21 legislative and local elections . Ten Senate seats were awarded to candidates of Aristide 's Lavalas party through a vote counting method later discredited by the international community . The method gave the Lavalas candidates a first-round victory even though the candidates had failed to win an outright majority . NYT-12-28-00 1944EST NYT20001228.2223.0362 NEWS STORY 2000-12-28 22:27:00 A4006 &Cx1f ; taf-z u s BC-HKN-LAPOINTE-COLUMN-N 12-28 0782 BC-HKN-LAPOINTE-COLUMN-NYT SPORTS COLUMN : LEMIEUX'S COMEBACK IS IRRESISTIBLE &UR ; By JOE LAPOINTE &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; &UR ; c.2000 N.Y . Times News Service &QC ; &LR ; &QL ; You did not have to admire Richard Nixon , Elvis Presley or Muhammad Ali to admit that all three staged successful comebacks . As president of the United States , king of rock 'n ' roll and heavyweight champion of the world , they enjoyed impressive second acts in their American lives . But each man 's denouement _ one politically scandalous , another self-destructive and the third evoking sympathy _ lingers large in the mind . Mario Lemieux , the Pittsburgh hockey star , may never be a transcendent personality like Nixon , Presley or Ali , and his future will not necessarily include a tragic trajectory . But , despite the initial success of Lemieux 's return to the ice , it is realistic to retain a few doubts about what will come . In sports terms , his closest parallel is Michael Jordan , who spent almost two seasons away from the NBA before returning in 1995 to lead the Chicago Bulls to three more championships . Like Jordan , Lemieux became part-owner of a team after retirement . Unlike Jordan , Lemieux is now both an equity investor and an employee . After 3 1/2 years of retirement , Lemieux played for the Penguins Wednesday , contributing one goal and two assists to a 5-0 victory over Toronto . In so doing , Lemieux pushed the NHL into the realm of real news , something it has not experienced since Wayne Gretzky 's highly orchestrated retirement in 1999 . The Lemieux comeback story is hard to resist because it has all the hooks . The first is talent . As the second-best player of the Gretzky era , Lemieux never got the recognition he deserved . The second factor is health . Lemieux survived Hodgkin 's disease and chronic back problems . The third element is money . Lemieux rescued his team from bankruptcy last season by exchanging deferred salary for an ownership stake . But the franchise still seeks new investors and a new arena to replace the NHL 's oldest rink . Mix in the family angle _ his young son wants to see him play ! Finally , sprinkle it generously with competitive flavoring because Lemieux 's presence could transform a mediocre , underperforming team into a dynamic and overachieving team . The other Pittsburgh superstar , Jaromir Jagr , admires Lemieux , who might change Jagr 's recent sulks and pouts into shouts of triumph . At the very least , Lemieux will attract ticket buyers and television viewers to a wintry sport that usually spins its wheels along the road to show-business success . So what could be wrong with this picture ? Start with health . Lemieux says his back has never felt better . One way to change that is by playing hockey , which punishes even young , healthy bodies . Can Lemieux produce at a high level at age 35 ? Perhaps , although crackdowns on obstruction fouls , such as this season's , tend to weaken around mid-schedule and evaporate come playoff time . This helped persuade Lemieux to retire the first time . The third caveat could be troubles , team -wide , on the ice and above it . Despite a shrewd general manager in Craig Patrick and a loyal fan base that understands the sport , the Pittsburgh franchise has seemed unsteady since the Stanley Cup years of 1991 and 1992 . The market is of modest size . The new coach , Ivan Hlinka , is one of the NHL 's first from Europe , and his adjustment curve has been steep . Should the Penguins falter as a team in the short term or as a business in the long term , Lemieux could be vulnerable to disappointment and even blame . A coincidence of interest in good times might seem like a conflict during struggles . But who wants to dwell on the potential downside ? Consider the vibration at the Devils game against Columbus in the Meadowlands on Wednesday night . While the Stanley Cup champions played the expansion Blue Jackets , fans in the seats kept glancing at the out-of-town scoreboard and murmuring about Lemieux every time the electric sign posted another Pittsburgh goal . In the press room , between periods , reporters gathered to watch Lemieux 's televised highlights from the Igloo . In the corridor afterward , two Columbus assistants met . `` Did you hear about Mario ?'' one asked . `` Yeah !'' his colleague replied . Both men were smiling , as happy about that distant development as they were with a spunky 2-2 tie in Continental Arena . Even skeptics and cynics look to see the bright side . It is that time of year . The sun is turning back toward the Northern Hemisphere , shining on winter ice as the days grow longer . Both friends and foes of the Pittsburgh Penguins have a rooting interest in a Happy New Year for the athlete they call le Magnifique . NYT-12-28-00 2227EST NYT20001229.2047.0291 NEWS STORY 2000-12-29 21:14:00 A4901 &Cx1f ; taf-z u p BC-ELN-VOTE-TOTAL-ART-NY 12-29 0680 BC-ELN-VOTE-TOTAL-ART-NYT GORE'S LEAD IN THE POPULAR VOTE NOW EXCEEDS 500,000 ( ART ADV : Graphic is being sent to NYT graphic clients . Nonsubscribers can purchase one-time rights by calling 888-603-1036 or 888-346-9867 .) &QL ; &UR ; By DAVID STOUT &QC ; &LR ; &QL ; &UR ; c.2000 N.Y . Times News Service &QC ; &LR ; &QL ; WASHINGTON _ Vice President Al Gore 's nationwide lead in the popular vote has grown by about 200,000 , to more than half a million , since Dec . 18 , when the Electoral College sealed his fate and made Gov. George W. Bush the 43rd president of the United States . A state -by- state survey by The Associated Press of the final certified results put Gore 's popular-vote edge at 539,947 , up considerably from the lead of about 337,000 that was widely reported in the first several weeks after the election . The totals were 50,996,116 for Gore and 50,456,169 for Bush . Much of the increase came in California , New York , and other , smaller states that went for Gore , said Curtis B. Gans of the Committee for the Study of the American Electorate , a nonpartisan research group that has followed presidential elections for a quarter-century . Election officials in California and New York said Friday that the bigger numbers for Gore were not hard to explain . Gore carried both big states easily . Both states had big absentee -ballot totals that could not be counted immediately and , because absentee votes generally do not vary sharply from Election Night returns , it was predictable that the absentees would widen the vice president 's lead . Gans said that in 1996 , President Clinton 's lead over Bob Dole grew by some 200,000 votes from election night until all absentee ballots were counted and all the votes certified , a fact all but forgotten except by political trivia buffs . `` But it didn't matter ,'' Gans said , in a race that the incumbent won by more than 8 million popular votes and by a 379-159 advantage in the all-important Electoral College . In the 1960 election John F. Kennedy had the electoral vote edge and a 114,673-vote margin in the popular vote over Richard Nixon . A total of 68.8 million votes were cast for president . Eight years later Nixon won the Electoral College and a popular-vote margin of 510,645 out of 73.2 million votes cast for president . The 2000 election , of course , will be remembered as the first in 112 years in which the leader in the popular vote lost the White House because his opponent prevailed in the Electoral College . Bush got 271 electoral votes , one more than he needed for a majority and five more than Gore , who lost one vote in the Electoral College when a Washington, D.C. , elector left her ballot blank to protest the District of Columbia 's lack of voting power in Congress . Gore won New York state , 4,107,697-2,403,374 , or by some 1.7 million votes . Lee Daghlian , the chief spokesman for the state 's Board of Elections , said Friday that about 360,000 absentee ballots were requested , and that about 260,000 were returned in time to be counted . In New York , absentee ballots must be postmarked no later than the day before the election and received no later than a week after the election . Daghlian said absentee balloting was about 20 percent higher this year than in 1996 . He speculated that the presence of Sen. Joseph Lieberman of Connecticut on the Democratic ticket might have caused more American Jews to mail ballots from Israel . It was clear on Election Night that Gore had carried California in a landslide , so it was expected that the nearly 1.5 million absentee ballots that arrived in time to be accepted would sharply augment his victory _ and they did . The final certified totals in California were 5,861,203 for Gore and 4,567,429 for Bush . Alfie Charles , a spokesman for the California secretary of state , Bill Jones , said the percentage of Californians voting by absentee ballot has been increasing , and that about one-quarter do now . ( Californians , unlike people in some states , can vote absentee without showing a compelling reason . Their ballots must arrive by Election Day to be counted .) NYT-12-29-00 2114EST NYT20001230.1309.0093 NEWS STORY 2000-12-30 14:23:00 A5284 &Cx1f ; taf-z u a BC-SEATTLE-ELEPHANT-NYT &LR ; 12-30 0473 BC-SEATTLE-ELEPHANT-NYT RARE BABY ELEPHANT DELIGHTS SEATTLE &UR ; By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; &UR ; c.2000 N.Y . Times News Service &QC ; &LR ; &QL ; SEATTLE _ The answers to the three most commonly asked questions at the Woodland Park Zoo in Seattle these days are : one , 235 pounds ; two , 22 months ( the longest pregnancy of any mammal in the world ); three , natural insemination , after her 8,800-pound mother was transported 2,000 miles for a tryst in Missouri . The questions concern a baby Asian elephant , the first one born at the zoo in its 100-year history . The 8-week-old elephant has quickly become a local sensation , and her presence has doubled the normal attendance figures and inspired some visitors to wait as long as two hours _ yes , often in the rain at this time of year _ to look at her . The three questions are : How much did she weigh at birth ? How long was she in there ? How was she conceived ? The answer to the last question is of particular interest to elephant experts around the world , who consider any successful experiment in breeding an important victory because elephants are endangered , especially the Asian species , whose numbers have declined steadily to about 40,000 in the wild . The baby elephant in Seattle is one of three Asian elephants born in North American zoos this year , one of which died shortly after birth , said Mike Keele , the coordinator for the elephant species survival program of American Zoo and Aquarium Association . Keele , an assistant director at the Oregon Zoo in Portland , said that artificial insemination had worked in only a handful of cases worldwide . At the Seattle zoo , efforts to artificially inseminate a 21-year-old Asian elephant failed to produce a pregnancy after six years . So in September 1998 , the zoo loaded the elephant , whose name is Chai , on a flatbed truck and sent her to the Dickerson Park Zoo in Springfield , Mo . There , Chai met up with Onyx , an 11,000-pound sire . Female elephants ovulate once every 16 weeks and then have only about a 24-hour window to become pregnant . After the first attempt failed , zoo officials said Chai appeared to enter into a funk in her unfamiliar surroundings and lost about 1,000 pounds . But in the second cycle , in January 1999 , she became pregnant and quickly regained the weight . The 22-month-long gestation ended at 4:48 a.m . on Nov . 3 . The birth was captured on a video , which is available at the Seattle zoo 's Web site , www.zoo.org . Another frequent question is this : Does the baby have a name ? Not yet . The zoo plans to have a contest to name the baby beginning in February , David L. Towne , president and director of the zoo , said . The person who submits the winning name , which Towne said should evoke the elephant 's Asian heritage , will receive a trip for two to Thailand , where Chai is from . NYT-12-30-00 1423EST NYT20001101.2212.0429 NEWS STORY 2000-11-01 22:12:00 A4398 &Cx1f ; taf-z u f BC-AOL-MARKETPLACE-NYT &LR ; 11-01 0711 BC-AOL-MARKETPLACE-NYT MARKET PLACE : TIME WARNER HOLDERS LOOK FOR HAPPY DAYS AFTER THE AOL MERGER &QL ; By ALEX BERENSON &QC ; &LR ; &QL ; &UR ; c.2000 N.Y . Times News Service &QC ; &LR ; &QL ; &UR ; &LR ; Back in January , when Internet stocks were hot , America Online agreed to buy Time Warner with AOL stock . The deal , if approved by regulators , would leave AOL shareholders with 55 percent of the merged company , even though Time Warner 's revenue and cash flow are far greater . Since then , AOL 's stock has fallen by almost a third , destroying most of the premium the company had offered for control of Time Warner . So a Time Warner shareholder might conclude that America Online 's chairman , Stephen Case , had bamboozled his Time Warner counterpart , Gerald Levin , into taking AOL 's shares at the worst possible time . `` Short term , anyone objective would say probably Steve got the better part of the deal ,'' said Larry Haverty , a senior vice president at State Street Research in Boston and a longtime media investor . But Haverty , like many other Time Warner shareholders and industry analysts , hardly cares . With the merger likely to be completed later this month , he predicts that the merged company will grow quickly by combining AOL 's marketing skills and captive base of online users with Time Warner 's huge library of films , magazines and the like and its relationships with major advertisers . `` The deal strategically and financially makes all the sense in the world ,'' Haverty said . `` Five years out , if you 're a shareholder in this company , you 're going to be a happy camper .'' That view is widely shared . `` Strategically , it makes a lot of sense ,'' said Tom Wolzien of Sanford C. Bernstein . `` These companies fill the holes of the other one . They 're subscription-advertising combo models . The reality is the pieces are very compatible .'' To be sure , the recent history of big media mergers is hardly comforting for shareholders in either AOL or Time Warner . Disney stumbled badly after it bought Capital Cities/ABC in 1996 , and Time Warner stagnated for five years after it was created in 1990 by the merger of Time and Warner . `` Huge deals are really hard to do and create a lot of uncertainty ,'' said Roger McNamee of Integral Capital , which sold its 404,000 AOL shares the day the merger was announced . But if the merged company can overcome that hurdle , it will have big advantages over Disney and other traditional media companies , which are still struggling to figure out how they can profit from the Internet , said Jessica Reif of Merrill Lynch . `` Given the multiple distribution platforms that they have , it 's obviously a very powerful consumer engine ,'' Reif said . `` There 's a reason that you see Disney and to a lesser extent NBC screaming in Washington .'' John Schreiber , an assistant portfolio manager at Janus Capital , the mutual fund company that is Time Warner 's largest shareholder , with more than 120 million shares , said the companies had already begun to demonstrate how they would work together . For example , AOL has pitched Time Warner 's magazines to its users , resulting in hundreds of thousands of new subscriptions . And the companies are trying to sell big advertisers on deals that will reach both America Online users and the people who watch Time Warner cable channels and read its magazines , Schreiber said . `` Once the merger closes , I think you 'll see some very powerful cross-promotional deals across all of Time Warner 's advertisers ,'' he said . Schreiber also says the risk of cultural clashes between the companies is limited , because the companies disclosed publicly where top executives would stand in the combined company only a few weeks after the merger was announced . So people who feel their responsibilities have been diminished have had months to look for new jobs , and some have already left , he said . Given the strength he sees in the combined company , Schreiber said the question of whether Levin could have negotiated a better deal with America Online is moot . Shares in cable companies like Comcast have fallen 15 percent or more this year , while big media companies have been flat or up slightly . So `` it 's not as if Time Warner shareholders have lost out on a great deal of upside ,'' Schreiber said . NYT-11-01-00 2212EST NYT20001102.1839.0338 NEWS STORY 2000-11-02 19:46:00 A5436 &Cx1f ; taf-z u f BC-LEVITT-NORRIS-COLUMN- 11-02 0623 BC-LEVITT-NORRIS-COLUMN-NYT WHEN A DIME MATTERS : LEVITT GOES AFTER OPTION MARKETS &UR ; By FLOYD NORRIS &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; &UR ; c.2000 N.Y . Times News Service &QC ; &LR ; &QL ; Arthur Levitt , the longest-serving chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission , is at it again . He 's angry about ways in which individual investors are badly treated , and he wants to do something about it . On Friday , Levitt will disclose what may be the final initiatives of his term . Evidently unconcerned that follow-up will fall to an SEC chairman named by the next president , he is putting pressure on supposedly independent directors of mutual funds to hold down the commissions the funds spend when they trade stocks , and on corporate audit committees to do a better job . He is threatening SEC action if companies continue to issue new stock options to top executives without getting shareholder approval . Most important , Levitt is demanding that the options industry put systems in place within a year to allow its customers to experience the benefits of decimalization by trading in penny increments . The commission , Levitt said in remarks prepared for a speech at Fordham University on Friday , should `` press the markets hard '' to do that . To understand his concern , consider trading Thursday in Compaq Computer securities . Compaq stock was trading with a spread of 4 cents between the best bid and the best asked price . At the same time , the most actively traded option contract on Compaq had a spread of 40 cents , 10 times as wide . The options exchanges ' rules bar any price change of less than a dime , while the stock price can move by a penny . `` Investors are being denied the benefits of lower spreads ,'' Levitt said . `` The industry is keeping the difference for itself .'' The history of competition in the options markets is not a pretty one . The exchanges avoided real competition for years , and then began to compete on the basis of kicking back money _ the polite term is `` payment for order flow '' _ to brokers who send in customer orders . Maybe such kickbacks lower commissions charged to customers , but that is hard to prove . What is clear is that the current system discourages price competition that would really help customers . Going to pennies would strain computer systems , but little has been done to get systems that could cope . In an interview , Edward Joyce , the president of the Chicago Board Options Exchange , said the industry was `` just acting prudently '' by going slowly . He gave no timetable for change . Levitt 's term as SEC chairman included the reform of the Nasdaq market , action on abuses in the municipal bond market and the new regulation to bar selective corporate disclosures . `` He 's done extraordinarily well ,'' said Joel Seligman , the dean of the Washington University law school and author of a history of the SEC . `` On Nasdaq and other issues , he pursued a principled approach consistent with the goals of investor protection .'' Sometime before his term ends , the SEC is likely to approve rules that will limit the amount of consulting services auditors can provide for their audit clients . On options or accounting or most anything else , a new SEC could reverse Levitt and the current SEC . There is precedent for that . Just over 20 years ago , the SEC approved a rule that forced auditors to disclose consulting arrangements with clients . Then Ronald Reagan won the election , and the rule was quietly repealed . By acting now , Levitt is making such moves more difficult . `` I want to be certain ,'' he said in an interview Thursday , `` that my successors and their successors do not forget the commitment to the primacy of the individual investor as being central to the success of our markets .'' NYT-11-02-00 1946EST NYT20001102.1839.0340 NEWS STORY 2000-11-02 19:49:00 A5439 &Cx1f ; taf-z u p BC-BUCHANAN-NYT &LR ; 11-02 0495 BC-BUCHANAN-NYT BUCHANAN , GOING WHERE OTHERS FEAR TO TREAD &UR ; ( ATTN : Fla .) &LR ; &QL ; &UR ; By DAVID E . ROSENBAUM &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; &UR ; c.2000 N.Y . Times News Service &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; TALLAHASSEE , Fla. _ After throwing barbs at all the other presidential candidates , Scott Dailey , a member of the school board here , introduced Pat Buchanan to a luncheon audience Thursday by joshing : `` Pat says he is a serious candidate . The polls say he is dead serious .'' It is an assessment that Buchanan , the Reform Party candidate , does not strenuously dispute . While many in political circles believe that Ralph Nader could affect the outcome of the election next week by draining votes away from Vice President Al Gore in crucial states , possibly even Florida , hardly anyone , least of all Buchanan , believes the Buchanan candidacy will be decisive . He does not have much support in the first place , as Dailey 's introduction implied . And the support he does have , Buchanan feels , is as likely to be drawn from Gore as from Bush . A New York Times / CBS News poll taken statewide last week showed Buchanan with 1 percent of the vote in Florida . He is apparently not doing much better anywhere else in the country . At a news conference here Thursday , Buchanan said one problem he faced was his lack of support from conservative Republicans . `` The great driving factor of conservatives ,'' he said , `` is to get rid of Al Gore .'' Many of those who will vote for him , Buchanan said , would probably not bother to vote if he were not in the race . Others , he said , are `` social conservative Republicans .'' Still others are blue-collar Democrats who like his protectionist trade policies because they fear their jobs could go overseas . When Bush and Gore are in Florida , they talk about Social Security , Medicare , taxes and education . In speeches like the one he gave Thursday to the Tiger Bay Club downtown , Buchanan talked about issues that the other candidates skip : immigration , the culture war , school prayer and international trade . Buchanan 's television advertisements in northern Florida also deal with issues that are not being addressed by others : English as an official language and the right of the Boy Scouts to exclude gays . A new advertisement depicts Gore and Bush as selling out to special interests . Why is he running when he knows he has no chance to win or even affect the outcome ? `` We want to build a new third party _ a conservative party ,'' Buchanan said . One main goal , almost certainly out of reach , is to get 5 percent of the vote nationally so that the Reform Party can get federal matching funds in the next presidential election . Here is how he described this year 's presidential race : `` When you had Goldwater versus Johnson , you had clarity . When you had Nixon and Agnew versus McGovern , you had clarity . When you had Reagan versus Mondale , you had clarity .'' This year , he said , the major- party candidates campaign with a `` conscious vagueness .'' NYT-11-02-00 1949EST NYT20001103.2226.0443 NEWS STORY 2000-11-03 22:49:00 A7372 &Cx1f ; taf-z u a BC-OBIT-SHENSON-NYT &LR ; 11-03 0344 BC-OBIT-SHENSON-NYT WALTER SHENSON , 81 , PRODUCER OF MOVIES STARRING THE BEATLES &UR ; c.2000 N.Y . Times News Service &QC ; &LR ; &QL ; Walter Shenson , the producer of the Beatles ' films `` A Hard Day's Night '' and `` Help !,'' died on Oct . 17 in Woodland Hills , Calif . He was 81 . Shenson , who was born in San Francisco , was working in London as a film producer _ most notably of `` The Mouse That Roared ,'' with Peter Sellers _ when he was approached by United Artists to oversee the first foray into cinema by the Beatles . The studio had discovered that the recording contract between the Beatles and EMI did not cover film soundtracks . Although the Beatles had yet to tour the United States , the group 's popularity in Britain was phenomenal , and United Artists decided to exploit it by putting out a cheaply made film as a pretext for a soundtrack album . He hired Richard Lester , a fellow American , to direct . At the suggestion of Paul McCartney , he recruited the Liverpool -based playwright Alun Owen to write the screenplay . The film 's prospects were so little regarded that while Shenson was prepared to offer the Beatles 25 percent of the net income , the band 's manager , Brian Epstein , initially asked for only 7 percent . United Artists thought that the Beatles would be a short-lived phenomenon , but Shenson foresaw their staying power and struck an agreement with the studio that all rights to the film would revert to him after 15 years . `` A Hard Day 's Night '' was so popular that Shenson said the studio recouped what it spent on the production _ about $600,000 _ in just one day after the film 's release in 1964 . A reissue of the film is to appear in theaters later this year . Shenson was on the set every day , and after he had looked at some early rushes his wife asked him whether the Beatles could act . `` I don't know if they can act ,'' he replied , `` but you can't keep your eyes off them .'' His wife , Geraldine , died last year . He is survived by two sons , Richard and Douglas ; a sister , Irma Levin of San Francisco ; and four grandchildren . NYT-11-03-00 2249EST NYT20001106.1705.0187 NEWS STORY 2000-11-06 18:26:00 A9514 &Cx1f ; tta-z u p BC-BUSH-ART-NYT &LR ; 11-06 0696 BC-BUSH-ART-NYT COMING FULL CIRCLE , BUSH VOWS TO END DISCORD IN WASHINGTON ( EDS : This early version will be updated from Davenport , Iowa .) &QL ; ( ART ADV : Photos NYT11 and 25 are being sent to NYT photo clients . Nonsubscribers can purchase one-time rights by calling 888-603-1036 or 888-346-9867 .) &QL ; &UR ; By FRANK BRUNI &QC ; &LR ; &QL ; &UR ; c.2000 N.Y . Times News Service &QC ; &LR ; &QL ; CHATTANOOGA , Tenn. _ Nearly 17 months after he first issued his call for a `` fresh start after a season of cynicism ,'' Gov. George W. Bush ended his quest for the presidency Monday on a nearly identical note , pledging to purge Washington of what he cast as a crippling discord . The course that Bush charted over his final hours on the campaign trail , plotted with as much concern for symbolism as for raw electoral arithmetic , left no doubt about where he placed the blame for that atmosphere . His first major rally was in Tennessee and his last was planned for Arkansas , the home states , respectively , of Vice President Al Gore and President Clinton . The Texas governor 's words made equally clear that he saw himself as the country 's best hope for bridging ideological divides , healing partisan wounds and making sure that Americans could gaze upon the White House with unfettered respect . `` There 's a better day ahead if we have a leader who 's willing to unite the country , to bring people together , to elevate the people 's business above everyday politics ,'' Bush said at a rally inside a hangar at the airport here , where supporters ' chants evoked the nearness of the moment of decision . `` One more day !'' they roared . `` One more day !'' What the nation needed , Bush told them , was `` a president who can unite this nation , a president who puts aside the endless partisan bickering that seems to gridlock our nation 's capitol , a president who puts the people first , a president who lifts this nation 's spirits . `` I 'll be that president ,'' he added , a sentence that was equal parts promise and prediction . It underscored the optimism that Bush has , from the very beginning , sought to project to voters . His schedule over the course of a 16-hour day was also an expression of that confidence . In between Tennessee and Arkansas , his campaign plane touched down in Wisconsin and Iowa , and while any one of those four states could wind up providing the key to a Bush victory , none have as many electoral votes as such battlegrounds as Michigan and Pennsylvania . But they are genuine tossups that were initially predicted to be much more hospitable to Gore . By visiting them Monday , Bush emphasized the breadth of his appeal and the sometimes surprising vulnerability of the vice president . He did not let his assertion of strength and confidence distract him from the important business of beseeching supporters to grant him victory . With just 24 hours before Election Day , Bush in many ways stripped campaigning to its essence : coaxing and cajoling , pleading and persuading . `` I want you to understand that I can't win without you ,'' Bush told a crowd of more than 1,000 people at a convention center in Green Bay , Wis. `` I hope you redouble your efforts to make sure people get out to the polls .'' Minutes later , he added : `` When you go out there and tell the folks where we stand on the issues and where we stand when it comes to bringing people together to get things done , and you tell them that the core of this campaign is the inherent trust in the American people , I believe it doesn't matter what political party they 're in . They 're going to come our way .'' In Chattanooga , Bush repeatedly needled Gore , which was much of the point of going to Tennessee , where Gore is not at all certain to prevail on Tuesday . The Texas governor claimed that Gore 's decades of experience in Washington had estranged him from the rest of the country by making him too trusting of federal government and too fond of federal spending . `` My opponent vows to carry his home state ,'' Bush said . `` He may win Washington , D.C. , but he 's not going to win Tennessee . `` He forgot his roots ,'' Bush added . `` He forgot where he 's from . He trusts Washington . We trust the people .'' NYT-11-06-00 1826EST NYT20001107.1907.0300 NEWS STORY 2000-11-07 19:07:00 A0909 &Cx1f ; taf-z u f BC-WEB-TRACK-AD-COLUMN-N 11-07 0630 BC-WEB-TRACK-AD-COLUMN-NYT ADVERTISING : TRACKING HOW WEB SURFERS ENTER SITES MAY HELP AD BUYERS &LR ; &QL ; &UR ; By STUART ELLIOTT &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; &UR ; c.2000 N.Y . Times News Service &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; NEW YORK _ Never mind those points of light a former president talked about . A research company is proposing that `` points of presence '' are what matter , at least when it comes to online marketing . The company , Word of Net , is introducing a system meant to measure the various points at which computer users are exposed to Web sites , wherever those exposures may occur . The measurement system , called the visibility index , is intended to provide information beyond the tracking of traffic to a site by tracking the exposure to sites through search engines , keyword inquiries , listings , links from other sites and category listings in online directories . The goal of the index is to help advertisers increase their visibility online by spending more effectively when buying banners and other types of interactive advertisements to generate traffic . That has become particularly important since the dot-com shake-out began and advertisement dollars have grown increasingly scarce . `` This is a key marketing competitive-intelligence tool because it highlights exposure all over the Internet ,'' said Astrid van Dorst , senior analyst for the e-marketing intelligence group at the Gartner Group in San Jose , Calif ., who was briefed about the index by Word of Net before its public introduction . `` You will see more of this as Internet metrics reaches the next level of maturity ,'' she added . The index data are presented as scores , which are weighted . The higher the score on the index , the more points of presence for a site and thus the more visible it is to consumers . The Web site ranked first in the initial visibility index , with a score of 973 , is www.aol.com , from America Online . The rest of the top five are www.zdnet.com , from CNet , with a score of 936 ; http://members.aol.com , also from America Online , 925 ; www.msn.com , from Microsoft , 922 ; and www.go.com , from the Walt Disney Co ., 915 . `` The real value of our technology is that it provides a way to measure return on investment for your marketing campaigns ,'' said Eric Sanders , chief executive at Word of Net in Sherman Oaks , Calif . `` Online advertising is a $5 billion to $7 billion industry , and it 's not nearly accountable enough ,'' he added . `` You can use our data to determine which of your marketing spends generate sales .'' The index is also intended to enable advertisers to monitor how pervasive the mentions of Web sites operated by rivals may be in cyberspace . `` This is helpful because it gives you a sense of how you come up against your competitors ,'' said Michele Chaboudy , vice president for marketing at MarketWatch.com in San Francisco , which operates a Web site in the crowded field of financial news . `` And it can help you plan your marketing campaigns ,'' she added , `` because you can actually see where people are coming to your site from .'' Chaboudy described herself as `` pretty skeptical '' about new measurements `` because I 've seen a lot of them .'' But data that Word of Net has shared with her so far led to a decision `` to look at some places we might want to advertise ,'' where MarketWatch.com is not advertising now , she added . As a result , MarketWatch.com is planning to become a Word of Net subscriber , Chaboudy said , adding with a laugh , `` Of course , we always negotiate the price .'' Speaking of money , Sanders said that Word of Net had `` raised $2 million to date '' from investors , adding that additional money was being sought . Among the clients of Word of Net , he listed DirecTV , Forbes , Park Place Entertainment , Tickets.com , Sony , Universal and Variety . NYT-11-07-00 1907EST NYT20001109.1946.0315 NEWS STORY 2000-11-09 20:10:00 A3555 &Cx1f ; taf-z u p BC-ELN-NADER-NYT &LR ; 11-09 0796 BC-ELN-NADER-NYT NADER VOTERS GO ONLINE TO EXPRESS ANGER , REGRET AND SOME SUPPORT &UR ; By JAMES DAO &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; &UR ; c.2000 N.Y . Times News Service &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; WASHINGTON _ Ralph Nader may not be feeling any regrets about his Green Party presidential campaign , but some visitors to the chat room on Nader2000.org , Nader 's official campaign website , sounded as if a bad hangover had come crashing down on them . There was this entry , for instance , posted Thursday morning by a writer named `` wreckz '': `` I , too , feel I should apologize to America . I was duped . Ralph Nader 's enjoyment of all of this is an indication of a man more concerned with vindictive politics than the future of our country and planet . I am no longer a member of the Green Party . Instead , I 'm a member of the green movement _ a movement without Ralph Nader .'' Or this one , also posted Thursday morning , from `` Noni '': `` I saw an interview with Ralph Nader today and he seemed to be enjoying what has happened ! I 've never seen him smile so broadly . I regret my support . Nader , you 're a well-intending man and I agree with most of your positions . But the symbolic run for the White House has destroyed our Party and our cause . Very bad things are in our future . You should not be smiling . And we , the misled , should feel shame for what we 've done .'' The remarks expressed fears that votes for Nader may have put Gov . George W. Bush in a position to defeat Vice President Al Gore . In Florida , where Gore trailed Bush by only a few hundred votes Thursday , a shift of just a fraction of Nader 's 95,000 votes could have given the state , and the White House , to Gore , the most likely major-party alternative for Nader 's supporters . John Ruth , for example , wrote on the Nader2000 site Thursday morning that he voted for Nader because he thought they `` shared a common goal '' but that he was now regretting it . `` Gore ( despite what you have said ) is NOT an environmental clone of G.W. Bush . Because of your actions and statements prior to Nov . 7th , we are on the brink of a Bush presidency . No money , no support , no respect for you , Ralph , ever again !'' And in Oregon , a state that was still too close to call Thursday afternoon , Nader won about 5 percent of the vote _ enough to cause some Nader voters to feel morning-after qualms . Julie Quastler , 28 , who voted for Nader in Portland , said on Wednesday that she was feeling `` a little alarmed and disappointed '' that Bush seemed on the brink of winning the presidency _ suggesting that she did not accept Nader 's assertion that the two parties were equally bad . `` I 'm just so sad ,'' she said . `` Bush is probably going to be our president and Nader didn't get his 5 percent . It seems like a lose-lose end result in some ways .'' Winning 5 percent of the vote nationwide would have qualified the Green Party for millions of dollars in federal campaign funds in 2004 . But Quastler , the development director for a nonprofit cafe , said she did not feel guilty about her vote . `` I voted for Nader because he was most aligned with my values ,'' she said . Of course , there were also countless verbal high-fives among Nader supporters Thursday who felt the Green Party had sent a bracing wake-up call to the two major parties . `` Stand tall and proud , fellow Nader supporters ,'' said one message on the Nader2000 site signed GO LOOK ELSEWHERE FOR SCAPEGOATS . `` We fought the good fight for what we believed in . This does not make us villains .'' Such sentiments seemed particularly strong in Florida . Dorothy Byrne , a state coordinator for the Florida Green Party , said she had been inundated with angry phone calls and e-mails from Democrats , but has yet to receive one regretful note from a Nader voter . `` I can see positives for the Greens with either Bush or Gore being president ,'' she said . `` If Gore was in , we wouldn't have to worry about women 's reproductive rights . But his record on the environment is so abysmal I don't see how Bush can be any worse .'' Barbara Lange , the Everglades chairwoman for the Florida chapter of the Sierra Club , said she and other environmentalists voted for Nader because Gore had not taken a stand against the development of a commercial airport near the Everglades . `` I voted my conscience ,'' she said . `` And I 'm okay with that .'' Patricia Newell , an organizer for Nader at the University of Florida in Gainesville , said that Nader had won far fewer votes in Florida than his supporters had expected _ due , she said , to `` scare tactics '' by the Democrats . `` Anyone who voted with Nader on Tuesday knew exactly what they were doing ,'' she said . `` On the contrary to feeling guilty , they feel very good about sticking with the candidate that they felt was best .'' NYT-11-09-00 2010EST NYT20001111.1033.0046 NEWS STORY 2000-11-11 10:36:00 A5480 &Cx1f ; var-z u a BC-ELN-VOTERS-REVIEW-ART 11-11 0938 BC-ELN-VOTERS-REVIEW-ART-NYT WHO VOTED : A PORTRAIT OF AMERICAN POLITICS , 1976-2000 &UR ; ( The Week in Review ) &LR ; &QL ; &UR ; ( NOTE TO INTERNATIONAL CLIENTS : For international clients ' use by special arrangement only . Asian and European points : contact Karl Horwitz in Paris for details and prices ( Phone : 47 42 17 11 ; FAX : 47-42-80-44 ). Latin American points : contact the Los Angeles office ( Phone : 310-996-0075 ; FAX : 310-996-0089 ) &QL ; ( ART ADV : Graphic is being sent to NYT graphic clients . Nonsubscribers can purchase one-time rights by calling 888-603-1036 or 888-346-9867 .) &LR ; &QL ; &UR ; By MARJORIE CONNELLY &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; &UR ; c.2000 N.Y . Times News Service &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; A majority of women , older voters , Democrats , liberals and black , Hispanic and Asian voters cast their ballots for Al Gore . George W. Bush captured the votes of most men, whites, conservatives, Republicans, Southerners and white Protestants . Ralph Nader , who received 2 percent of the vote , did best among independents , particularly liberal ones , and among young men . But the national election was so close because several large groups _ voters under 65 , independents , voters from the Midwest and the West and suburbanites _ divided their votes almost evenly between the two major candidates . The accompanying table , drawn from surveys of voters leaving the polls ( including those in Florida ), shows how different groups have voted for president since 1976 . Because large numbers of people are surveyed , exit polls can help measure the preferences of groups like Jewish or Asian voters or young blacks or liberal Republicans whose portion of the voting population is often too small to examine in typical telephone surveys . The Gender Gap Bush received a majority of votes from men and Gore was backed by a majority of women . That 's been a trend for at least 20 years : more women vote for Democrats ; more men prefer Republicans . This year , the gap was especially large . Gore got more votes from women than from men : 12 percentage points more . The gender gap cut across all age groups and education levels , even among black voters , who strongly supported Gore overall . The gender gap was widest among college graduates and unmarried voters . Party Identification Few voters crossed party lines . Large majorities of Republicans supported Bush . Gore won the votes of most Democrats . Voters who identified themselves as independent split almost evenly . Most independents who described their political ideology as liberal supported Gore . Bush was backed by independents who characterized themselves as conservative . Moderate independents were very closely divided . Where They Live As in 1996 , most Easterners supported the Democrat . But while four years ago , Southerners were evenly divided between Bill Clinton and Bob Dole , this year Bush carried the the South . The Midwest and the West were almost evenly divided between the two candidates . Gore did best among urbanites . Bush ran stronger in smaller towns and in rural areas . Suburban voters split about evenly . Pocketbook Concerns Voters who say their finances have improved during a president 's tenure usually favor the incumbent , while the challenger is preferred by those who say their financial situation has deteriorated . That held true this year . Gore was strongly backed by voters who said their family 's finances were better than four years ago . Bush won the support of those who said their financial situation had deteriorated . In 1996 , one in three voters said their economic situation had improved over the previous four years . This year , half did . Generally , those who say their economic conditions have not changed divide their support between the two major candidates pretty evenly . This year , though , two in three voted for Bush . Data for 2000 were collected by Voter News Service based on questionnaires completed by 13,279 voters leaving 300 polling places around the nation on Election Day . Data for 1996 were based on a survey conducted by Voter News Service based on questionnaires with 16,627 voters . Data for 1992 were based on a survey conducted by Voter Research and Surveys with 15,490 voters . Data for 1976 through 1988 were based on surveys conducted by The New York Times and CBS News : 11,645 in 1988 ; 9,174 in 1984 ; 15,201 in 1980 and 15,300 in 1976 . Family income categories in 1976 : Under $8,000 , $8,000-$12,000 , $12,001-$20,000 , and over $20,000 . In 1980 : Under $10,000 , $10,000-$24,999 , $25,000-$50,000 and over $50,000 . In 1984 : Under $12,500 , $12,500-$24,999 , $25,000-$50,000 and over $50,000 . In 1988 : Under $12,500 , $12,500-$24,999 , $25,000-$50,000 , over $50,000 and over $100,000 . In 1992 : Under $15,000 , $15,000-$29,999 , $30,000-$49,999 , $50,000 and over , and $100,000 and over . The category of independents includes respondents who indicated they considered themselves `` something else '' in 1972 , 1992 , 1996 and 2000 . `` Something else '' was not an option the other years . Male and female college graduates include those with postgraduate education . In 1984 , first-time voter refers to voters first registered to vote in that year . In 1976 and 1980 the Congressional vote does not include New York and California . Family financial situation is compared to one year ago in 1976 and 1980 and four years ago in 1984 , 1992 , 1996 and 2000 ; 1976 and 1984 data are from NBC News . Those who gave no answer are not shown . Dashes indicate that a question was not asked or a category was not provided in a particular year . Asterisks indicate that there was an insufficient number of respondents . NYT-11-11-00 1036EST NYT20001111.1247.0093 NEWS STORY 2000-11-11 13:18:00 A5549 &Cx1f ; taf-z u i BC-MIDEAST-VIOLENCE-NYT &LR ; 11-11 0834 BC-MIDEAST-VIOLENCE-NYT ASSASSINATION OF PALESTINIAN IGNITES MORE VIOLENCE &UR ; By JOHN KIFNER &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; &UR ; c.2000 N.Y . Times News Service &QC ; &LR ; &QL ; JERUSALEM _ The commander of Israeli troops in the West Bank said there was a simple goal to the helicopter assassination on Thursday of a gun -wielding local Palestinian leader . `` I hope it will reduce the violence and bring back reason to this area ,'' Maj . Gen. Yitzhak Eitan told reporters at a briefing hours after three missiles fired from an Apache helicopter killed Hussein Obaiyat , along with two middle-aged women standing near his van in Beit Sahur , near Bethlehem . Instead , it has touched off one of the bloodiest and most intense weekends of fighting yet in the six-week-old conflict , with gunfire crackling through the West Bank and Gaza Strip . Five Palestinians and an Israeli soldier were shot dead on Friday . Gunfire between Palestinian positions and Israeli areas continued through the night around Ramallah and Bethlehem , and by nightfall on Saturday more Palestinians were dead and an Israeli soldier critically wounded , raising the death toll to at least 200 . Indeed , the escalation of gunfire is being described by both Palestinians and Israelis as a `` Lebanonization '' of the conflict to a state resembling guerrilla war . Two Palestinians were killed as they staged a drive-by ambush on an Israeli jeep in the Gaza Strip near the Israeli settlement of Gush Katif Saturday afternoon , and two Israeli soldiers were wounded , one critically . As the Israelis retrieved and held on to the two bodies , a large crowd of Palestinians gathered . Men in civilian clothes in the crowd began firing with AK-47 assault rifles and a 45-minute gun battle broke out . The situation remained tense as dusk fell , with an army helicopter hovering overhead as Palestinian police evacuated their post for fear it would be attacked by rockets . The clashes started early in Gaza . A 12-year-old Palestinian boy was shot dead when troops opened fire on a crowd of stone throwers near the Erez checkpoint . In Jenin , on the West Bank , a Palestinian identified as Hani Marzouq , 37 , died in a hospital from neck and chest wounds suffered in the widespread clashes on Friday . In Hebron , thousands of mourners crowded the streets for the funeral of Raed Mohtaseb , 27 , chanting `` the blood of the martyrs is calling us .'' Mohtaseb was shot while riding in a car driven by his father , Saedi Mohtaseb , who is a senior official in Yasser Arafat 's Fatah organization in the tense , embattled city where a handful of Jewish settlers are surrounded by Palestinian residents who have been kept under frequent curfew . The Palestinians charge that the shooting was an attempt to assassinate a Palestinian official . The army issued a statement saying it `` denies any attempt to assassinate a Fatah member or a senior official of the Palestinian authority .'' An American news photographer , Yola Monakhov , was shot and wounded by Israeli troops while covering a stone -throwing confrontation at Rachel's Tomb , near Bethlehem , Palestinian hospital officials said . Monakhov , a 26-year-old free-lancer on assignment for The Associated Press , suffered a fractured pelvis , hospital officials said . The assassination of the once-relatively obscure Fatah leader Obaiyat , whom the army blamed particularly for leading nocturnal shooting on Gilo , a neighborhood in southeastern Jerusalem , was regarded as a grave step by Israeli commentators . Writing in the newspaper Haaretz before Friday 's marked increase in Palestinian gunfire , Amir Oren described the strike as `` a critical point , almost a point of no return , in the scale of violence .'' In Yedioth Ahronoth , Roni Shaked wrote : `` The use of helicopter missiles as a tool of assassination is a step on the way to the ` Lebanonization ' of the territories .'' Shaked added : `` In the short term _ and this was also the assessment of the General Staff _ the Palestinians will step up their hostilities in response to the slaying . But the army believes in the long run such proactive operations will lead to a decrease in terrorism .'' The surge in violence came as Prime Minister Ehud Barak prepared for a meeting on Sunday with President Clinton in Washington . But no one here seemed to be holding out hopes that the meeting would bring calm soon . Barak said on Friday , before much of Israel closed down for the Sabbath , that the talks would be an effort to end the violence , but added he did not expect they would `` lead to a renewal of negotiations .'' With the seven-year-old peace process in tatters , one senior Palestinian figure , Parliament speaker Ahmed Korei , known as Abu Ala , insisted that Israel must halt all settlement building , accept an international peacekeeping force to protect Palestinians and allow the United Nations a role in the peace process , before talks could be resumed . These are conditions that are anathema to the Israelis and are unlikely to be met . NYT-11-11-00 1318EST NYT20001114.0210.0200 NEWS STORY 2000-11-14 15:53:00 A8685 &Cx1f ; taf-z u d BC-SIMPLE-COOKING-NYT &LR ; 11-14 0619 BC-SIMPLE-COOKING-NYT PUDDING , SWEET AND NOT &UR ; By MARK HULBERT &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; &UR ; c.2000 N.Y . Times News Service &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; NEW YORK _ Bread pudding is one of the most traditional American dishes ; cookbooks from the 18th century have recipes for it that are more or less the same as what we make today . But bread pudding is also a minimalist sort of dish , no more than dry bread mixed together with milk and eggs and whatever flavor strikes the cook , and then baked until it is rich and custardy . It can be savory or sweet , and either makes a simple , interesting substitute for a standard part of the Thanksgiving meal . Savory bread pudding is a luxurious side dish that can be served in place of stuffing . Or it can be the extra stuffing that everyone always wants ( but not dry like the usual kind baked outside a turkey can be ). My basic recipe combines the cubed bread , eggs and milk with a couple of cheeses . ( If you 're desperate for oven space , bake it and then heat it just before serving , or serve it at room temperature .) You can make it without the mushrooms , too . The pudding can also be varied by adding a pinch of thyme or sage , chopped nuts or cooked chestnuts , or about a cup of grated sweet potato or chopped scallions . If you want a pudding that tastes more like stuffing , just add chopped celery , onions , carrots and herbs . Sweet bread pudding is made the same way , but with fewer ingredients . I use maple syrup instead of sugar for the extra flavor and moisture . You can add more spices , including a small grating of nutmeg , chopped crystallized ginger , raisins or prunes soaked in Armagnac . The kind of bread you choose makes a difference . Fluffy packaged white bread disappears ; the crusts of crisp baguettes and peasant breads never become tender . For savory pudding , stick to long , wide inexpensive loaves , usually called Italian bread ; for sweet pudding , stale hallah is best . And make sure the bread is thoroughly and evenly soaked before it 's baked ; I like to submerge the bread with a weighted plate before baking . Then you don't even have to stir . &UR ; SWEET BREAD PUDDING &LR ; &UR ; Time : 1 hour , largely unattended &LR ; 4 tablespoons butter 6 cups white bread , cut or torn into 1-inch chunks 2 cups half-and-half 4 eggs } cup maple syrup or sugar { teaspoon cinnamon Pinch salt . 1 . Butter an 8-inch souffle or baking dish , and add bread . Cut remaining butter into bits , and combine with all other ingredients ; pour over bread . Submerge bread with weighted plate , and turn oven to 350 degrees . 2 . When oven is hot , remove the plate and bake until pudding is just set , 35 to 45 minutes . Serve with or without whipped cream . Yield : 6 or more servings . Variation : To make chocolate bread pudding , melt 2 ounces chopped bittersweet chocolate in the milk , let cool slightly and add to mixture . &UR ; SAVORY BREAD PUDDING &LR ; &UR ; Time : 1 hour , largely unattended &LR ; 2 tablespoons butter or olive oil , plus more for greasing the pan 6 cups dense white bread , cut or torn into 1-inch chunks 2 cups milk 4 eggs Salt and fresh black pepper 2 ounces grated Parmesan 4 ounces freshly grated semisoft cheese , like Emmenthal 1 cup sliced shiitake mushroom caps . 1 . Butter or oil an 8-inch souffle or baking dish , and put bread in it . Combine everything but shiitakes , and pour over bread . Submerge bread with a weighted plate , and turn oven to 350 degrees . Heat 2 tablespoons butter or oil in a saute pan , add shiitakes and saute until tender , about 10 minutes . 2 . Remove plate , and stir in mushrooms . Bake until pudding is just set , 35 to 45 minutes . Yield : At least 6 servings . NYT-11-14-00 1553EST NYT20001115.2157.0439 NEWS STORY 2000-11-15 22:12:10 A0465 &Cx1f ; taf-z u l BC-CIRCUITS-PHOTO-UPDATE 11-15 0444 BC-CIRCUITS-PHOTO-UPDATE-NYT ATTENTION EDITORS : The following photos have been sent as part of The New York Times ' Circuits Photo Package , moving Wednesday , 11/15/00 . Photo clients will automatically receive our photos via AP 's PhotoExpress or may download them from either the Wieck Photo Database in Dallas at 972-392-0888 or from NYTPhotos on Newscom at 213-237-4577 or PressLink at 800-888-6195 . Non-clients can make individual purchases by calling ( 888 ) 603-1036 or 212-556-4204 . ( NYT37 ) CAMBRIDGE , Mass . -- Nov . 15 , 2000 -- CIR-ROBOT-DOLL -- Rodney Brooks , the 45-year-old director of the Artificial Intelligence Laboratory at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology , has spent most of his career engrossed in the question of how to model biological systems . Brooks is chairman and chief technical officer at iRobot , a 10-year-old robotics company in Cambridge , Mass ., that started out making robots for private missions to the moon and Mars . Brooks with My Real Baby doll , an animatronic doll priced at $100 . ( Michael Quan /The New York Times ) ( NYT36 ) UNDATED -- Nov . 15 , 2000 -- CIR-GAMES -- In the ever-shifting race for dominance between consoles and PCs , the year 2000 will probably go to the consoles . 1 ) The Gamer PC 2 ) Gaming sound system 3 ) Game console 4 ) Online fishing reel 5 ) Voice controller ; Chip set ; Keyboard and mouse ; Game controller ; Graphics card . ( Tony Cenicola /The New York Times ) ( NYT35 ) UNDATED -- Nov . 15 , 2000 -- CIR-KIDS -- Long gone are the days when children 's toys were principally powered by mainsprings and imagination , when a doll capable of uttering only `` Mama '' would be considered downright chatty . Today a relatively advanced technology empowers much of play . 1 ) Organizer with built-in camera 2 ) Digital music player 3 ) Drawing tablet 4 ) Music system 5 ) Robots that see 6 ) Learning blocks 7,8 ) Educational toys ( Tony Cenicola /The New York Times ) ( NYT34 ) WASHINGTON -- Nov . 15 , 2000 -- GINGRICH -PORTRAIT -- Newt Gingrich , the most divisive figure in the recent history of the House , appealed Wednesday to both parties to work together and to listen to the fears of each other 's political bases . Speaking at the unveiling of his official portrait , the former speaker warned that `` otherwise we will sink deeper into two warring camps , each fearing and loathing the other .'' Gingrich , resigned as speaker of the House after the Republicans lost seats in 1998 as his party worked to impeach President Clinton . Gingrich at the unveiling of his portrait in Statuary Hall at the Capitol in Washington . ( Justin Lane /The New York Times ) The New York Times News Services NYT-11-15-00 2212EST NYT20001116.0145.0061 NEWS STORY 2000-11-16 01:59:00 A0861 &Cx1f ; taf-z u k BC-EDIT-VIETNAM-CLINTON- 11-16 0532 BC-EDIT-VIETNAM-CLINTON-NYT EDITORIAL : A PRESIDENTIAL JOURNEY TO VIETNAM &UR ; c.2000 N.Y . Times News Service &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; The New York Times said in an editorial for Thursday , Nov . 16 : The last U.S . president to visit Vietnam was Richard Nixon , who traveled to the South Vietnamese capital of Saigon in 1969 , at the height of a war that eventually took 58,000 American and 3 million Vietnamese lives . Thursday , Bill Clinton begins a three-day trip to Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City , as Saigon is now called . Clinton 's visit is striking evidence of how far the two countries have moved beyond the rancor of that conflict . But if a healthy new relationship is to be built , Hanoi must ease bureaucratic restrictions on foreign investment and show greater respect for the civil and religious liberties of its people . Clinton 's itinerary inevitably looks back to war-related issues , like repatriating the remains of Americans lost in action and helping remove land mines still buried in Vietnamese soil . But he should also use his visit to press for a faster pace of political and economic reform . Much has changed in Vietnam over the past three decades . Most of its 79 million people have been born since the war ended , and younger Vietnamese , in particular , look admiringly upon American prosperity and personal freedoms . While the Communist Party still jealously monopolizes government power and public political debate , ordinary Vietnamese are no longer afraid to talk about politics in private . But anyone who speaks out for more accountable government or wider freedom faces stern repression . Hanoi continues to jail open critics , persecute religious believers , censor newspapers , restrict the Internet and otherwise suppress dissent . It routinely violates provisions of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights , to which it acceded in 1982 , guaranteeing freedom of expression , association and religious belief and prohibiting arbitrary detentions . After a disastrous decade of trying to impose North Vietnam 's austere and repressive communism on the more freewheeling South , the country 's leaders reversed course in the late 1980s and began encouraging Southern style entrepreneurship . But over the past three years , Vietnam 's program of market liberalization has stalled as the country 's political leaders have grown concerned about decentralizing economic power . Foreign investors have become frustrated with the Vietnam 's bureaucratic hurdles and have taken their investments to China and other Southeast Asian nations . When Clinton talks to university students in Hanoi on Friday he should speak plainly about the merits of human rights , democracy , free markets and the rule of law , as he did during his 1998 trip to China . He also needs to raise these issues in his discussions with government and Communist Party leaders as well . Establishing firm legal protections for Vietnamese - Americans who want to return home to do business should be an important part of his agenda . He would also do well to follow the advice of Sen . John McCain and others and seek to expand legal exchange programs to cover press and human rights issues as well as commercial law . NYT-11-16-00 0159EST NYT20001119.2132.0191 NEWS STORY 2000-11-19 21:52:00 A4616 &Cx1f ; tib-z u k BC-SAFIRE-COLUMN-NYT &LR ; 11-19 0752 BC-SAFIRE-COLUMN-NYT COMMENTARY : ARAFAT'S ` WAR PROCESS ' ( Essay ) &QL ; &UR ; By WILLIAM SAFIRE &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; &UR ; c.2000 N.Y . Times News Service &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; WASHINGTON _ When the leader of the Hezbollah in Syrian -occupied Lebanon came up with a plan to kidnap three Israeli soldiers six weeks ago , his Iranian sponsors cautioned him to first get the approval of Bashar Assad , the new president of Syria . That 's because Israel was expected to retaliate against Hezbollah forces in areas controlled by Syrian troops . Ever since Israel 's troops pulled out of its Lebanese buffer zone , Hezbollah 's terrorism has been closely coordinated with Bashar in Damascus . Usually reliable intelligence sources note that the inexperienced Bashar , eager to establish credentials in the Arab world as a militant enemy of Israel , gave his approval to the kidnap plan . This despite the danger that the Hezbollah 's capture of Israeli soldiers could lead to armed confrontation in Lebanon between Syrian and Israeli forces . On or about Oct . 8 , Hassan Nasrallah , secretary general of Hezbollah , reported directly to Bashar that the kidnapping had been carried out as planned . Bashar was heard to have congratulated him on its `` smooth execution ,'' goes the undercover account , and assured the terrorist leader full backing against anticipated mild U.N. reaction as well as a stronger response from Israel . The risk accepted by Arab and Persian leaders in a daring provocation within what Israel considers its territory was evidence of what is emerging as Yasser Arafat 's strategy . From his turnabout that so surprised President Clinton at the Camp David fiasco , to his reluctance to speak out to restrain the rioting of Palestinians and sniping of his gunmen-police , his plan can be deduced : First step is to transform the `` peace process ,'' which was in danger of succeeding in establishing a small Palestinian state , into a religious `` war process '' for control of Jerusalem and a state incorporating Jordan and Israel . What keeps Arafat in power is not the dubious economic promise of a struggling dictatorship but his militant followers ' dream of driving the Jews out of the Middle East . Second step is to whip up support in world opinion by creating innocent victims of Israeli guns . Palestinian snipers draw fire into civilian crowds for the sole purpose of sacrificing innocents , creating anguished funeral demonstrations and spreading hatred . Every casualty is exploitable ; every picture of a boy with a slingshot rather than a gun is a small victory ; the gut-wrenching film of the boy dying in a crossfire was a propaganda triumph . Though such a war process does not win military victory , it delivers results : In a much less well-armed form of intifada a few years ago , it led to Oslo and ultimately to Ehud Barak 's stunning concessions . But to attain a goal of stimulating the defeat of Israel by Arab armies far stronger than his own , Arafat needs more than sustained low-level belligerency that wears down the Israeli will ; he needs to provoke a new Middle East war . That explains the campaign to sacrifice Palestinian women and children , opening the possibility for a stray Israeli shell to inflict horrific tragedy . Infuriated Muslims throughout the region then put pressure on shaky sheiks to support another such war . That 's why we see Arafat 's allies in the Hezbollah enticing Syria 's strongman into taking risks his dictator - father Hafez _ having learned a bloody lesson that cost him the Golan _ would have avoided . Arafat also knows that Iraq 's Saddam Hussein , developing weaponry to counter Israel 's nuclear deterrent , is spoiling to send his tanks and Scuds through Jordan into his enemy 's homeland . The possibility of such a Palestinian -sparked conflagration must be foremost in Barak 's mind as he deals with the rioting and kidnapping . He must respond with seeming toughness , lest Israelis scorn him for being weak ; yet he must not use too much firepower , lest he fall into Arafat 's wider-war trap . Barak 's demonstrated dovishness may force him to err on the side of using ever-greater force and thereby be drawn into Arafat 's war process . The paradox is that the Israeli opposition leader Arik Sharon 's longtime reputation for fierceness would enable the Likud leader to enforce separation , control military escalation and stop that war process . America 's mind is fixed on its own affairs , but thanks to Arafat , whoever wins the White House is sure to have a stressful first 100 days . NYT-11-19-00 2152EST NYT20001122.2009.0333 NEWS STORY 2000-11-22 20:35:00 A8450 &Cx1f ; taf-z u f BC-EXP-LUXURY-GOODS-NYT &LR ; 11-22 0502 BC-EXP-LUXURY-GOODS-NYT ANOTHER JOLLY SEASON IN STORE FOR LUXURY GOODS ( EDS : This article is part of TIMES EXPRESS . It is a condensed version of a story that will appear in tomorrow 's New York Times . ART ADV : Graphic is being sent to NYT graphic clients . Nonsubscribers can make individual purchase by calling 888-603-1036 or 888-346-9867 .) &QL ; &UR ; By LESLIE KAUFMAN &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; &UR ; c.2000 N.Y . Times News Service &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; While most Americans would be content with a Sony Playstation II or a sweater twin set under the tree this year , for an increasing number of people mere cashmere does not say `` I love you '' with quite the same authority as pashmina . The economy may be slowing somewhat , but the top slice of income earners is still sitting on a huge pile of wealth and is expected to propel such purveyors of designer delectables as Tiffany &AMP; Co . and the Neiman Marcus Group into yet another banner financial year . Every shopper vaguely suspects that there is as much art as substance in the difference between an $8 Revlon lipstick and the By Terry counterpart , going for $49 . But luxury-goods companies guard no secret more ferociously than the cost of making their wares . `` We are uncomfortable even with the question ,'' said Christina Kim , a spokeswoman for Hermes of Paris . Still , it is possible to gain glimpses of enlightenment . Public companies have to report gross margins _ the money they take in after the costs of making their goods are deducted . For a luxury company like Gucci or Estee Lauder , that number usually runs in excess of 60 percent of total revenues . That means the actual cost of making their stuff , from sweaters to thigh-high leather boots , is less than 40 percent of the average price tag . ( By contrast , gross margins at the Gap and other chain apparel stores rarely rise above 45 percent .) And as profitable as cosmetics and accessories can be , most luxury houses have at least one other blockbuster that is a deep well of cash . For example , one executive at a luxury house explained the rough cost of producing a high-quality leather handbag . The finest leather from an Italian ( only !) tannery costs $50 to $60 . The labor of a master craftsman to cut and stitch the bag costs roughly $72 . The exclusive metal hardware , like the logo and locks , might account $45 . Add another 5 percent for miscellaneous costs , and all in all there is $180 worth of bag . And that stays the same , this executive says , whether you are paying $460 for Escada 's new handbag in turquoise leather or $4,800 for that forest green Hermes Kelly handbag that is so frequently out of stock . To be fair , there are very real expenses that will cut the final profit on luxury products : advertising , fabulous parties to create buzz , rents on the fanciest boulevards and salaries to the fine-boned sales clerks who speak in charming foreign accents , to name a few . But do those outlays for image really change the intrinsic worth of the product ? Suffice it to say that fine minds differ . NYT-11-22-00 2035EST NYT20001122.2009.0341 NEWS STORY 2000-11-22 20:58:00 A8464 &Cx1f ; taf-z u a BC-MASS-NURSE-TRIAL-NYT &LR ; 11-22 0494 BC-MASS-NURSE-TRIAL-NYT EX-NURSE ON TRIAL IN SUSPICIOUS PATIENT DEATHS &UR ; By CAREY GOLDBERG &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; &UR ; c.2000 N.Y . Times News Service &QC ; &LR ; &QL ; SPRINGFIELD , Mass. _ `` There was a coldness in Ward C ,'' the prosecutor began his wintry tale of white-coated murder this week . `` It was a deep , eerie , unsettling feeling that something terribly , terribly wrong was happening ,'' Assistant U.S . Attorney William Welch II went on . Patients were succumbing to sudden cardiac arrest at an alarming and suspicious rate . Finally , he said , in February 1996 , `` three registered nurses came forward to report a patient 's , a health care professional 's , a hospital 's worst nightmare : There was a killer amongst them .'' That killer , prosecutors charge , is Kristen Gilbert , 33 , a former nurse , who is on trial in federal court here , accused of murdering four patients and trying to kill three others by poisoning them with epinephrine , a stimulant that sent their hearts racing out of control . Massachusetts is one of 12 states that lack the death penalty , but Gilbert 's is a capital case nonetheless , because the alleged crimes occurred on federal property _ the Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Northampton , Mass. And so the case is being tried in federal court , where prosecutors can , and say they will , seek the death penalty . In an opening argument on Monday , the defense lawyer , David P. Hoose , emphasized that no one had seen Gilbert poison the patients . He said that the patients were very sick and that the prosecution 's claims that evidence of epinephrine poisoning was found in the exhumed bodies of patients were based on shoddy science . The case is really about `` an investigation that started with a conclusion and then worked backwards to fill in the gaps ,'' he said . `` And the proposition they started with was that people were injected with epinephrine , and Kristen Gilbert did it .'' As Welch depicted her , Gilbert reveled in the excitement and attention of the emergency calls made whenever a life-threatening situation arose , and went out of her way to create emergencies by injecting patients with epinephrine . She had a particular reason to crave that spotlight , he said : Though married and the mother of two boys , she began an affair in late 1995 with one of the hospital 's security police , James Perrault , and he would be summoned to help whenever an emergency call was made . Welch also said Gilbert had confessed to Perrault , who would testify . Welch described a pivotal moment on Feb . 15 , 1996 , when a suspicious colleague of Gilbert 's , Kathy Rix , counted three ampules in the intensive care unit 's medicine cabinet at 4 p.m .; an hour later , after an emergency call that involved Gilbert , she counted again and found none , and then saw three broken ampules in the needle disposal bucket . `` She felt sick to her stomach and her knees about buckled ,'' Welch said , `` because she now knew what had been happening on Ward C .'' NYT-11-22-00 2058EST NYT20001123.1511.0062 NEWS STORY 2000-11-23 17:17:00 A9034 &Cx1f ; taf-z u f BC-QUESTIONS-AD-COLUMN-N 11-23 0790 BC-QUESTIONS-AD-COLUMN-NYT ADVERTISING : FOLLOW THE QUESTIONS INTO A ` CHAD , CHAD , CHAD , CHAD WORLD ' &LR ; &QL ; &UR ; By STUART ELLIOTT &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; &UR ; c.2000 N.Y . Times News Service &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; It 's time again to ask 20 questions about advertising , marketing and the media . _ Will Americans ever refer to the day before Thanksgiving as `` Thanksgiving Wednesday ,'' as ABC did repeatedly this week in commercials promoting its Wednesday sitcoms `` The Drew Carey Show '' and `` Spin City ''? _ If a Hollywood studio makes a movie about the Florida election standoff , would the title be `` It 's a Chad , Chad , Chad , Chad World ''? _ How many readers of The Wall Street Journal noticed that an article on Wednesday carrying the headline `` Genetically Altered Protein Is Found in Still More Corn '' ran adjacent to an advertisement for a golf tournament on Fox Sports sponsored by Sun Microsystems that featured a fanciful photograph of a gigantic ear of corn as big as a Buick ? _ Doesn't a new television commercial for Fidelity Investments , centered on a telephone conversation between a female employee and a male customer , resemble a Citibank campaign from the late 1980s that was so brilliantly parodied as the `` First Citiwide Change Bank '' commercials on `` Saturday Night Live ''? _ Did shoppers at the New York supermarket chain Gristede's rush to take advantage of a recent sale on the `` BIG 150-count box '' of Scotties facial tissues , or did they recall that Scotties has usually come in a 175-count box ? _ Can Ocean Spray Cranberries get a refund on a full-page ad that ran in newspapers on Nov . 8 and carried the headline `` Now That the Election Is Over , You Can Focus on Some Real News ''? _ Was it a coincidence that an ad for the Carnation Coffee-mate line of coffee creamers in the recent issue of In Style Entertaining 2000 magazine ran opposite an article about `` great trends '' in party-giving that began by describing carnations as `` the chic flower of the moment ''? _ Should an English teacher have been consulted before the Tropicana division of PepsiCo produced posters that described its Pure Premium orange juice as being `` as packed with Vitamin C as a bus on a rainy day ''? _ Will Jack Nicholson , Helen Hunt , Greg Kinnear and James L. Brooks complain about an ad from Campbell Soup Co . for Campbell 's Cream of Mushroom soup that carried the slogan `` As m'm ! m'm ! good ! as it gets ''? _ Now that the Roundabout Theater Company is calling its new facility in Times Square the American Airlines Theater , will the ushers give out peanuts instead of Playbills ? _ Why did the Reader's Digest Association go to the trouble of airbrushing the identifying information from a label on a pair of jeans worn by a man in a photograph featured in an ad for Reader's Digest magazine , but leave the red tab on the back pocket that tells everyone the pants are Levi 's ? _ Do television commercials for prescription drugs disclose that side effects in tests were no worse `` than a sugar pill '' because research found that consumers weren't familiar with the word `` placebo ''? _ What was in the zeitgeist that led two disparate advertisers _ Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield and the MSN network of Microsoft _ to introduce about the same time campaigns centered on butterflies ? _ And what was in the zeitgeist that led two automotive marketers _ Land Rover and Volvo _ to introduce about the same time commercials centered on drivers rescuing animals on rainy roads ? _ Are folks old enough to remember the heyday of the radio and television personality Arthur Godfrey reminded of his longtime greeting , `` How are ya ?,'' every time they hear the name of the new Lucent Technologies spinoff company , Avaya Communication ? _ How appealing was a recent offer made by Sprint Communications Co . to give buyers of a Sprint PCS telephone and a calling plan a free `` pre-owned phone ''? _ Was it an inside joke that the name of the character played by John Corbett on `` Sex and the City ,'' Aidan Shaw , was almost identical to the name of a longtime star of gay sex films , Aiden Shaw ? _ How many tickets did the Houston Grand Opera sell after mailing out a promotional brochure featuring photographs of cattle with headlines like `` It 's udderly fantastic entertainment !'' and `` Great opera . No bull .''? _ If CBS shows the first episode of `` Survivor II '' after its broadcast of Super Bowl XXXV , will the network someday show the first episode of `` Survivor XXXV '' after its broadcast of Super Bowl LXVIII ? _ Will cheerful chorus members dressed in V-neck sweaters interrupt their serenades to online shopping long enough to tell an advertising columnist , `` You ask a lot of questions for someone from Brooklyn ''? NYT-11-23-00 1717EST NYT20001124.2050.0257 NEWS STORY 2000-11-24 20:52:00 A0034 &Cx1f ; taf-z u f BC-ASIAN-ECONOMIES-NYT &LR ; 11-24 0750 BC-ASIAN-ECONOMIES-NYT EXPANDING ASIAN ECONOMIES DEFY CAUTIOUS FORECASTS BY INTERNATIONAL ECONOMISTS &LR ; &QL ; &UR ; By MARK LANDLER &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; &UR ; c.2000 N.Y . Times News Service &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; HONG KONG _ For most of this year , Asia 's economies have performed a sort of levitating act _ growing by double-digit rates month after month even as economists predicted they would fall to earth . That dichotomy was on vivid display here Friday : Hong Kong reported that its economic output surged 10.4 percent in the third quarter , and it raised its projection for full-year growth to 10 percent from 8.5 percent . Yet a block away , the International Monetary Fund warned in a news conference that Asian economies could be hit hard by soaring oil prices and turmoil in the financial markets . The IMF said a $5 increase in the price of a barrel of oil could slow the growth rates of Asian countries next year . `` The prospects for growth in 2001 have weakened ,'' said David Robinson , assistant director of research at the fund . `` There has also been increased political instability across the world , not least in Asia .'' Several Asian countries _ notably the Philippines , Taiwan , and Indonesia _ have been gripped by political tumult in recent weeks . The Philippines president , Joseph Estrada , was impeached last week , while Chen Shui-bian , the president of Taiwan , is trying to fend off a recall vote . Even in more stable countries , like Malaysia and South Korea , Robinson said the Fund was concerned by the haphazard pace of economic reforms . In many countries , the banks and corporations remain financially shaky . `` We 're still seeing chaebols in deep trouble ,'' he said , referring to Korea 's heavily indebted conglomerates . But Robinson acknowledged that these weaknesses had not yet been reflected in the economic performance of the countries . On Tuesday , South Korea reported a 9.2 percent increase in its third-quarter output _ beating the estimates of most analysts and extending a string of powerful quarters . Indonesia , Malaysia , and Singapore have also beaten expectations , while Hong Kong 's growth rate was nearly three percentage points above a median forecast of 12 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News . Like other Asian economies , Hong Kong has been buoyed by an unquenchable appetite for its exports , principally in the United States . Exports surged 17.7 percent in the third quarter . Hong Kong has done a particularly booming business in repackaging and shipping goods from mainland China . Consumer spending rose by a much less impressive 5.6 percent , as retail sales slackened from the second quarter . And consumer prices fell 2 percent , extending a decline that began during the crisis . Ian Perkin , chief economist at the Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce said the double-digit growth in Hong Kong and other Asian countries masked their underlying condition . While the region 's growth in exports has been torrid , domestic demand has remained tenuous . `` We haven't built up our domestic economies yet ,'' he said . `` The recovery has relied almost completely on export growth . `` If consumer spending slows down in the States , it will have a devastating effect on Asia ,'' said Perkin . `` 2001 could be a crunch year .'' Robinson of the IMF was similarly wary about next year . In October , the IMF projected that the world economy would grow 4.2 percent in 2001 , while Asia as a region would grow 6.6 percent . On Friday , Robinson said the growth rate could be lower , though he would not say by how much . A principal culprit of possibly slower growth is the dependence of many Asian countries on imported oil . Oil prices have risen $5 per barrel since the IMF issued its semi-annual economic outlook in October . Asia has little control over oil , but Robinson said the region could improve its economic prospects by calming its political waters . One bright spot in the Asian landscape is China , which is on track to record 8 percent growth in 2000 . Robinson said the main question facing Chinese leaders was whether they need to spend billions of dollars in public funds to further stimulate an economy that was already expanding . Like Perkin , Robinson said Asia 's future depended in large part on the health of the United States . But he disputed those who predict dramatically slowing growth _ the so-called hard landing _ for the American economy . `` The chances of that happening are less than 40 percent ,'' he said , `` substantially less .'' NYT-11-24-00 2052EST NYT20001125.1558.0117 NEWS STORY 2000-11-25 15:58:00 A0481 &Cx1f ; taf-z u a BC-MICH-HUNTING-ACCIDENT 11-25 0651 BC-MICH-HUNTING-ACCIDENTS-NYT SAFETY WORRIES INCREASE AS MICHIGAN HUNTERS TAKE GUNS UP TREES &UR ; c.2000 N.Y . Times News Service &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; GROSSE POINTE PARK , Mich. _ It is deer hunting season in Michigan , and hunters who climb trees with loaded shotguns have state officials redoubling safety education efforts . Two men have been killed , and a third has been injured since the hunting season opened on Nov . 15 . All three accidents involved shotguns , elevated platforms and a practice relatively new to Michigan hunters _ shooting at deer from trees . The Michigan season , one of the busiest , continues through Nov . 30 . Firearm hunting from elevated platforms has long been legal in other states with heavy hunting , like New York and Pennsylvania . But the practice is only in its third season in Michigan , and officials say it appears that hunters still have a lot to learn about safety . Lt. Suzanne Koppelo , hunter safety administrator of the law enforcement division of the Michigan Department of Natural Resources &UR ; , &LR ; said that since firearm platform hunting began in Michigan there had been seven shooting accidents linked to the practice . Three were fatal . Two hunters shot themselves on platforms and another was killed on the ground by a hunter shooting from a platform . `` If hunters exercised the kind of caution one would expect at heights of 20-some feet , it would be almost a nonissue ,'' said Koppelo . `` But given human nature , that 's not the case .'' More than 750,000 licensed hunters are taking to the Michigan woods this year , where they are expected to kill about 500,000 of the state 's 1.9 million deer . The numbers reinforce the need to improve education about platform hunting with firearms , Koppelo said . The practice is more commonly associated with hunters using bows and arrows . Instead of hiding on the ground or walking through the woods , they wait quietly , typically at a height of 15 to 20 feet , and fire down at deer that wander below . Despite the hunter killed from the platform , Sgt. Larry D. Sargent , hunter education field coordinator for the law enforcement division , says the practice does offer one safety advantage : errant shots typically thump harmlessly to the ground , rather than whistling through the woods and striking other people . The problems primarily arise when hunters get in and out of position . `` It 's kind of hard climbing a tree with a gun ,'' Rob Williams said , as he and a hunting partner , Art Bush , waited on a recent morning in a conventional earthbound hunting blind about 20 miles west of Detroit . For Williams , Rule No . 1 is not to climb a tree with a loaded gun . He says that when he hunts from a platform he climbs up with a rope dangling from his belt to his gun , which he leaves unloaded on the ground . When he is secure in his stand , he pulls his gun up after him and loads it . Sargent says this is proper procedure . One accident this year , however , illustrates the importance of following each step of the safety procedures . A 16-year-old hunter used a haul line , but it was tied to the trigger guard and he left the gun loaded , Koppelo said . The teen-ager 's gun went off and he was shot in the foot . Others are hurt falling out of trees . Koppelo said that state officials were trying to keep count of these injuries but that it was difficult , since they relied on hunters reporting minor accidents . `` A lot of guys are embarrassed ,'' Sargent said . `` They 'll say they fell working in the yard or something .'' Others , Koppelo says , do not want to report accidents for fear the law will be changed . And she adds that though anecdotal reports show Michigan 's large hunting population to be taking slowly to firearm deer hunting from platforms , most expect the practice to catch on as it has in other states . As Peter Thompson , a 16-year-old hunter , said , `` Usually the deer don't look up .'' NYT-11-25-00 1558EST NYT20001127.2103.0306 NEWS STORY 2000-11-27 21:10:00 A2399 &Cx1f ; taf-z u p BC-ELN-BUSH-CARD-NYT &LR ; 11-27 0909 BC-ELN-BUSH-CARD-NYT WASHINGTON INSIDER AND FAMILY LOYALIST POISED TO BE BUSH CHIEF-OF-STAFF &LR ; &QL ; &UR ; By ELAINE SCIOLINO &LR ; &QC ; &UR ; &QL ; c.2000 N.Y . Times News Service &QC ; &QL ; &LR ; WASHINGTON _ The way Andrew H. Card Jr . tells it , the first time he ever set eyes on George W. Bush in Kennebunkport , Maine , in 1979 , the younger Bush cut a most unimpressive profile . &HT ; Bush was a defeated politician who had failed in his bid the year before to become a congressman from Texas . And Card , a Republican state legislator from Massachusetts helping the elder George Bush seek the Republican nomination for president , was taken aback by the difference between what he saw as the patrician father and plebeian son . `` I expected to see a Yalie and what I saw was West Texas ,'' Card said in a telephone interview of that first encounter with the younger George . `` He was wearing cowboy boots and dirty jeans and was chewing tobacco and it was drooling out of his mouth .'' But then , Card spun positive , adding : `` He was sincere , warm and inviting . I liked him right off the bat because he was a regular , real person .'' Now Card , 53 , is the younger Bush 's chief-of-staff-in-waiting , poised to move into a crucial office in the West Wing should Bush be validated as president . People who have worked with Card over the years say that he would bring to the job total loyalty to the Bushes , a voracious appetite for hard work , a willingness to obey orders and a manageable ego . `` He 's not a sparkling personality ,'' said Brent Scowcroft , the national security adviser in the Bush administration . `` He 's a very quiet , down-to-earth person . He 's a workhorse , not a show dog , absolutely .'' Although Bush campaigned as a Washington outsider independent of his father 's strings , Card is a Washington insider , a corporate lobbyist for the automobile industry and General Motors who served in both the Reagan and Bush administrations and enjoys the ultimate trust not only of Bush but also of his father and mother . `` I would do anything to help his parents ,'' Card said in the interview . `` They were wonderful to me . I have an infinite amount of love for them . They took an interest in my wife , the challenges I went through bringing up my kids . But my respect for Governor Bush is independent of my love for his parents .'' Born in Holbrook , Mass. , on May 10 , 1947 , Card graduated from the University of South Carolina with a degree in engineering . His wife of 33 years , the former Kathleene Bryan , whom he met in the fifth grade , was ordained as a Methodist minister two years ago . They have three grown children and four grandchildren . Card 's interest in politics began when he became president of the class of 1965 at Holbrook High School . After four terms in the state legislature , he ran unsuccessfully for governor in 1982 . Then Vice President George Bush helped land him an unglamorous but respectable job in the Reagan White House in 1983 as liaison with elected state officials , former Reagan and Bush administration officials said . He stayed for the rest of the administration . `` Vice President Bush rarely got involved in personnel matters , but he really went to bat for Andy Card ,'' recalled Chase Untermeyer , personnel director in the Bush White House . After serving as the elder Bush 's campaign manager for the crucial New Hampshire primary in 1988 , Card was rewarded with the job of deputy chief-of-staff in the Bush administration , and then served as secretary of transportation in its final year . When a hurricane struck Florida that year , Card was made President Bush 's personal emissary for disaster relief and dispatched there to dispel the widely held belief that the administration had done too little too late . He was one of the last people to leave the Bush administration , staying on until two months into the Clinton administration in what was referred to as the `` out-transition office '' to make sure all the Bush paperwork had been completed . In `` Barbara Bush : A Memoir ,'' the former first lady referred to Card as a man who repeatedly `` had come to our rescue .'' Card stayed on in Washington , turning himself into the top lobbyist for the automotive industry . In 1993 , he became president and chief executive of the American Automobile Manufacturers Association , where he oversaw the lobbying against tighter fuel-economy and air pollution regulations for automobiles and in coming up with technical arguments for why industrializing nations should proceed slowly in addressing global warming . When that organization was dissolved in 1998 , he became GM 's vice president for government relations in Washington . Card prides himself on his humility . When he was offered the job of running the Republican National Convention in Philadelphia in July , he demurred . `` I told them they had the right to change their mind and asked them to stop and reflect on it '' in case there were better choices , he told an interviewer from The Patriot Ledger newspaper in Quincy , Mass. He said he did not accept the assignment until he consulted with two other lieutenants from the Bush presidency , former Defense Secretary Dick Cheney and former Secretary of State James A. Baker III . As for being offered the job of chief-of-staff-in-waiting , he said in the telephone interview , `` I 'm thrilled , honored , appropriate in my humility , because I have to stretch to do the job . But I 'd rather stretch than bend over to do it .'' NYT-11-27-00 2110EST NYT20001127.2214.0372 NEWS STORY 2000-11-27 22:23:00 A2512 &Cx1f ; taf-z u f BC-REPLAY-TV-NYT &LR ; 11-27 0403 BC-REPLAY-TV-NYT UPHEAVAL , AND NEW FOCUS , AT REPLAYTV &UR ; By JOHN MARKOFF &LR ; &QC ; &UR ; &QL ; c.2000 N.Y . Times News Service &QC ; &LR ; &QL ; SAN FRANCISCO _ ReplayTV Inc ., a pioneering maker of digital video recorders , said late Monday that its leader of one year had resigned , that it would lay off up to half of its work force of 260 and that it plans to reshape its business strategy . Along with TiVo Inc ., a competing Silicon Valley startup company , Replay has been trying to build a market for computer-based systems that replace traditional videotape recorders and permit television viewers to freeze programs and rewind , and to create custom `` channels .'' As part of its shift in strategy , Replay 's founder , Anthony Wood , will become the company 's new chief executive , replacing Kim LeMaster . The company also said it will try to refocus its business on software licensing arrangements made with partners , including cable service providers and makers of cable set-top boxes . `` The new business model is focused more intently on the cable industry ,'' said Steve Shannon , Replay 's vice president of marketing . He said the company was in trials with Time Warner , Comcast , Charter Communications and with AT&AMP;T . It also has announced a development agreement with the Motorola Corp . to build its software into a new generation of cable set-top boxes . Analysts said that despite offering free electronic service , in contrast to TiVo 's subscription service , ReplayTV has trailed in the consumer market . TiVo 's digital recorders are being manufactured by Sony and Phillips , while ReplayTV systems are being shipped by Panasonic . The company , which is based in Mountain View , Calif ., said that it has so far sold approximately 20,000 units . `` TiVo has had the ` wow ' factor ,'' said Josh Bernoff , an industry analyst at Forrester Research , a computer industry research and consulting firm . `` The result is that Replay has been left with a weakening market position and a device that works well but doesn't look as great .'' However , that disadvantage will work to ReplayTV 's advantage in striking deals with the cable industry , he added . TiVo has had difficulty building alliances with cable companies , who are not generally interested in showcasing competing brands . On the horizon is Microsoft , which has also recently entered the market for personal video recorders with its own system , called Ultimate TV . NYT-11-27-00 2223EST NYT20001128.1940.0266 NEWS STORY 2000-11-28 19:49:00 A3547 &Cx1f ; taf-z u f BC-TIMES-NATGEO-NYT &LR ; 11-28 0284 BC-TIMES-NATGEO-NYT NEW YORK TIMES JOINS WITH NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC FOR SCIENCE PROGRAMMING &LR ; &QL ; ( EDS : no byline ) &QL ; &UR ; c.2000 N.Y . Times News Service &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; NEW YORK _ National Geographic and the television production unit of The New York Times have agreed to collaborate on a weekly science program that will be shown on National Geographic 's coming cable channel beginning in June . The program will take its title from The Time &UR ; s ' &LR ; weekly Science Times section . The content will be jointly developed by the channel 's news division and the television production unit , New York Times Television , a subsidiary of The New York Times News Services . `` The show will be largely based on articles that The New York Times ' science section either has run or plans to run ,'' said Richard Flaste , managing editor of New York Times Television Enterprises . National Geographic Channel is scheduled to be available in 10 million homes this January . National Geographic will own one-third of the channel and the Fox Cable Networks Group will own the rest . The companies planning to carry the channel include AT&AMP;T Broadband , Adelphia Cable and DirecTV . National Geographic introduced an international channel in September 1997 that is in 115 countries and reaches 85 million homes . The U.S. channel will not be an extension of the overseas channel , said Laureen Ong , president of the American channel . The Times is already active in television through a three-year joint venture with Granada Media to produce documentaries and an experimental partnership with ABC News to produce reports for `` 20/20 '' and `` Good Morning America .'' That agreement is scheduled to expire at the end of this year . NYT-11-28-00 1949EST NYT20001129.2040.0383 NEWS STORY 2000-11-29 20:52:00 A4944 &Cx1f ; tta-z u p BC-R-ELN-FLA-CONTEST-ART 11-29 0817 BC-R-ELN-FLA-CONTEST-ART-NYT GORE LAWYERS WANT FLORIDA HIGH COURT TO HANDLE RECOUNT , AND QUICKLY &LR ; &QL ; ( Repeating ; this is now a New York Times front-page story ) &QL ; ( ART ADV : Graphic is being sent to NYT graphic clients . Nonsubscribers can purchase one-time rights by calling 888-603-1036 or 888-346-9867 .) &QL ; &UR ; By DAVID FIRESTONE &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; &UR ; c.2000 N.Y . Times News Service &LR ; &QC ; &QL ; TALLAHASSEE , Fla. _ Lawyers for Vice President Al Gore said Wednesday their only chance for victory in his contest of the Florida election would be shattered if they have to wait until Saturday to begin counting disputed ballots , and they began an appeal to the Florida Supreme Court to do the counting itself , immediately . The appeal was filed with the District Court of Appeal late Wednesday afternoon , and will be submitted to the state 's highest court early Thursday , Gore 's lawyers said . It essentially asks the Supreme Court to take over Gore 's contest lawsuit from the slow-moving trial court , to count the ballots itself , and eventually to declare Gore the winner if he wins the recount . But lawyers for Gov. George W. Bush said they had no intention of allowing any hand counting to begin without a vigorous legal fight . To that end , they persuaded Circuit Judge N. Sanders Sauls to order 1.1 million ballots _ every vote cast in Miami-Dade and Palm Beach counties _ brought up from south Florida and placed in the court 's custody . That represents 83 times the number of disputed ballots that the judge had agreed on Tuesday to transport to Tallahassee at the Gore team 's request . And it could take weeks if not months to count them all , the point that Barry Richard , Bush 's chief trial lawyer here , said he was trying to make in requesting that the ballots be transported here . `` We did it to make a point ,'' Richard said in an interview . `` If you recount any ballots , you have to recount all of them . Now , we don't think any ballots should be counted , because the manual recount of ballots is finished . But in the event the court determines that some ballots should be counted , we wanted them here so they could all be counted .'' Aware that they could not stop the movement of all the ballots , Gore 's lawyers barely objected to the move , asking only that the disputed ballots that might contain hidden Gore votes be separated from the mass . `` I know when it 's futile ,'' said David Boies , Gore 's chief trial lawyer , to Sauls . Nonetheless , Gore 's lawyers were furious at the move , aware that it represents yet another enormous barrier to their hopes for an immediate count of the 14,000 disputed ballots in the two counties and a quick decision from the judge that Gore really won the election . Even if the Florida Supreme Court should swiftly agree to their request and orders the counting to begin by Friday , that would still put them three days behind their original timetable . And facing a Dec . 12 deadline for the state to name electors for the Electoral College , Gore has absolutely no days to spare . `` It 's a stunt ,'' said Kendall Coffey , one of Gore 's election lawyers , as he stormed out of Sauls ' courtroom Wednesday , referring to the request for all the ballots . `` They 're trying to bog down the case , the system , the clerk 's office and everywhere else they can .'' The decision by Gore 's lawyers to appeal the case shows how perilous their situation is . By appealing , the lawyers were forced to put on paper their fear that their case could be over if they cannot begin counting ballots until Saturday . The decision to wait until a Saturday hearing `` is effectively a final order denying all relief sought by plaintiffs because the action now pending below must be completed before Dec . 12 , 2000 , in order to offer any relief ,'' said the notice filed with the Court of Appeal . It adds , `` the court must allow sufficient time to complete an accurate and fair count of the contested ballots , which is essential for the proper resolution of the contest action .'' But the decision to bring up all the ballots means that they will not be assembled in Tallahassee until late Friday , a day later than planned . And even then , the hurdles are enormous . There will have to be another hearing before the Florida Supreme Court , and Gore 's lawyers will have to refute three arguments to be raised by the Bush team : There should be no more counting at all ; if there is any counting , it will have to include all 1.16 million ballots ; and if there is any counting of disputed ballots , dimples cannot be counted as votes . If these issues are heard before Sanders , there will have to be briefs , witnesses , and evidence on each point , which could take days . If the Supreme Court agrees to short-circuit the process , there will still have to be lengthy briefs filed , and the court may need to wait several days before finding time for yet another momentous hearing in its schedule . NYT-11-29-00 2052EST 